quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is a large diversified financial services company. as such, it and its subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. the company's measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of its financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio would be recognized as investment gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of operations. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by the company at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. the company believes that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since the company's investment portfolio is subject to change based on its portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves the overall investment strategy employed by the company and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy and the level of risk acceptable to it. the company may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. equity price risk - the company has exposure to equity price risk as a result of its investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% change in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2002 and 2001, with all other variables held constant. interest rate risk - the company has exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. the company attempts to mitigate its exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. the company monitors its sensitivity to interest rate risk by evaluating the change in the value of its financial assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in interest rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of the company's investments and the resulting effect on shareholders' equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of the company's financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which the company believes are reasonably possible over a one-year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the market value of the company's interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2002 and 2001 due to instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on the company's earnings or shareholders' equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions the company could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. the company's long-term debt, as of december 31, 2002 and 2001 is denominated in u.s. dollars. the company's debt has been primarily issued at fixed rates, and as such, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $374.6 and $395.0 million, respectively. a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $440.1 and $464.6 million, respectively. foreign exchange rate risk - foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. the company has foreign exchange rate exposure when it buys or sells foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency. this exposure is mitigated by the company's asset/liability matching strategy and through the use of futures for those instruments which are not matched. the company's foreign transactions are primarily denominated in canadian dollars, british pounds and the 89 european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis also assumes an instantaneous 20% change in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2002 and 2001, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk - the company has exposure to commodity price risk as a result of its investments in gold options. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous change of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2002 and 2001. the following tables present the company's market risk by category (equity markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ december 31 2002 2001 2002 2001 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (amounts in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities $ 430.7 $ 290.0 $ (108.0) $ (73.0) options - purchased 23.7 17.5 3.0 6.0 - written (19.2) (7.8) 2.0 (3.0) index futures - long (2.0) short sales (200.7) (193.4) 50.0 48.0 separate accounts - equity securities (a) 6.3 11.7 (2.0) (2.0) - other invested assets 326.5 342.1 (5.0) (6.0) interest rate (2): options on government securities - short (2.5) (2.0) interest rate swaps (7.1) (31.0) separate accounts - fixed maturities 145.4 308.4 3.0 (5.0) - short term investments 166.6 296.0 gold (3): options - purchased 0.6 2.6 14.0 (3.0) - written (0.7) (0.4) (20.0) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) a decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points at december 31, 2002 and an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points at december 31, 2001 and (3) a decrease in gold prices of 20% at december 31, 2002 and an increase in gold prices of 20% at december 31, 2001. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. (a) in addition, the separate accounts carry positions in equity index futures. a decrease in equity prices of 25% would result in market risk amounting to $(151.0) and $(217.0) million at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. this market risk would be offset by decreases in liabilities to customers under variable insurance contracts. 90 other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ december 31 2002 2001 2002 2001 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (amounts in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 666.1 $ 1,338.5 $ (166.0) $ (322.0) separate accounts 112.0 148.6 (28.0) (37.0) other invested assets 1,157.6 1,306.9 (133.0) (134.0) separate accounts - other invested assets 387.3 533.0 (97.0) (133.0) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) (b) 27,433.7 31,191.0 (1,650.0) (1,560.0) short-term investments (a) 10,161.7 6,734.8 (6.0) (1.0) other invested assets 263.0 258.5 other derivative securities 18.0 16.3 (47.0) (19.0) separate accounts (a): fixed maturities 1,868.1 2,038.8 (96.0) (120.0) short term investments 109.5 98.0 long-term debt (5,558.0) (5,399.0) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(148.0), and $(114.0) million at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. (b) certain fixed maturities positions include options embedded in convertible debt securities. a decrease in underlying equity prices of 25% would result in market risk amounting to $(24.0) and $(50.0) million at december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 91quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is a large diversified financial services company. as such, it and its subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. the company's measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of its financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio would be recognized as investment gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of operations. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by the company at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. the company believes that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since the company's investment portfolio is subject to change based on its portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves the overall investment strategy employed by the company and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy and the level of risk acceptable to it. the company may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk - the company has exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. the company attempts to mitigate its exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. the company monitors its sensitivity to interest rate risk by evaluating the change in the value of its financial assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in interest rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of the company's investments and the resulting effect on shareholders' equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of the company's financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which the company believes are reasonably possible over a one-year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the market value of the company's interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2003 and 2002 due to instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on the company's earnings or shareholders' equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions the company could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. the company's long-term debt, as of december 31, 2003 and 2002 is denominated in u.s. dollars. the company's debt has been primarily issued at fixed rates, and as such, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $394.1 and $374.6 million, respectively. a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $460.5 and $440.1 million, respectively. equity price risk - the company has exposure to equity price risk as a result of its investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% change in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2003 and 2002, with all other variable held constant. foreign exchange rate risk - foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. the company has foreign exchange rate exposure when it buys or sells foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency. this exposure is mitigated by the company's asset/liability matching strategy and through the use of futures for those instruments which are not matched. the company's foreign transactions are primarily denominated in canadian dollars, british pounds and the european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis also assumes an instantaneous 20% change in the foreign currency 104 exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2003 and 2002, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk - the company has exposure to commodity price risk as a result of its investments in gold options. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous change of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2003 and 2002. the following tables present the company's market risk by category (equity markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ december 31 2003 2002 2003 2002 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (amounts in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities $ 339.1 $ 430.7 $(85.0) $ (108.0) options - purchased 22.2 23.7 2.0 3.0 - written (4.0) (19.2) (1.0) 2.0 short sales (118.4) (200.7) 30.0 50.0 limited partnership investments 73.5 (18.0) separate accounts - equity securities (a) 0.1 6.3 (2.0) - other invested assets 419.1 326.5 (7.0) (5.0) interest rate (2): futures - short (5.0) interest rate swaps 25.0 (7.1) (1.0) (31.0) separate accounts - fixed maturities 304.3 145.4 4.0 3.0 - short term investments 413.7 166.6 gold (3): options - purchased 1.4 0.6 8.0 14.0 - written (0.8) (0.7) (12.0) (20.0) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) a decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points and (3) a decrease in gold prices of 20%. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. (a) in addition, the separate accounts carry positions in equity index futures. a decrease in equity prices of 25% would result in market risk amounting to $(277.0) and $(151.0) at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. this market risk would be offset by decreases in liabilities to customers under variable insurance contracts. 105 other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ december 31 2003 2002 2003 2002 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (amounts in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 526.9 $ 666.1 $ (129.0) $ (166.0) separate accounts 116.5 112.0 (29.0) (28.0) limited partnership investments 1,261.6 1,156.9 (69.0) (133.0) separate accounts - other invested assets 414.8 387.3 (104.0) (97.0) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) (b) 28,781.3 27,433.7 (1,979.0) (1,650.0) short-term investments (a) 11,264.6 10,161.7 (5.0) (6.0) other invested assets 237.8 241.3 other derivative securities 5.0 18.0 (105.0) (47.0) separate accounts (a): fixed maturities 1,809.2 1,868.1 (114.0) (96.0) short term investments 81.8 109.5 long-term debt (5,871.0) (5,558.0) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(152.0) and $(148.0) at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (b) certain fixed maturities positions include options embedded in convertible debt securities. a decrease in underlying equity prices of 25% would result in market risk amounting to $(32.0) and $(24.0) at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 106quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is a large diversified financial services company. as such, it and its subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. the company's measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of its financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio would be recognized as investment gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of operations. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by the company at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. the company believes that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since the company's investment portfolio is subject to change based on its portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves the overall investment strategy employed by the company and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy and the level of risk acceptable to it. the company may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk - the company has exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. the company attempts to mitigate its exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. the company monitors its sensitivity to interest rate risk by evaluating the change in the value of its financial assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in interest rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of the company's investments and the resulting effect on shareholders' equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of the company's financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which the company believes are reasonably possible over a one-year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the market value of the company's interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2003 and 2002 due to instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on the company's earnings or shareholders' equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions the company could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. the company's long-term debt, as of december 31, 2003 and 2002 is denominated in u.s. dollars. the company's debt has been primarily issued at fixed rates, and as such, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $394.1 and $374.6 million, respectively. a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $460.5 and $440.1 million, respectively. equity price risk - the company has exposure to equity price risk as a result of its investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% change in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2003 and 2002, with all other variables held constant. foreign exchange rate risk - foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. the company has foreign exchange rate exposure when it buys or sells foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency. this exposure is mitigated by the company's asset/liability matching strategy and through the use of futures for those instruments which are not matched. the company's foreign transactions are primarily denominated in canadian dollars, british pounds and the european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis also assumes an instantaneous 20% change in the foreign currency 104 exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2003 and 2002, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk - the company has exposure to commodity price risk as a result of its investments in gold options. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous change of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2003 and 2002. the following tables present the company's market risk by category (equity markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ december 31 2003 2002 2003 2002 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (amounts in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities $ 339.1 $ 430.7 $(85.0) $ (108.0) options - purchased 22.2 23.7 2.0 3.0 - written (4.0) (19.2) (1.0) 2.0 short sales (118.4) (200.7) 30.0 50.0 limited partnership investments 73.5 (18.0) separate accounts - equity securities (a) 0.1 6.3 (2.0) - other invested assets 419.1 326.5 (7.0) (5.0) interest rate (2): futures - short (5.0) interest rate swaps 25.0 (7.1) (1.0) (31.0) separate accounts - fixed maturities 304.3 145.4 4.0 3.0 - short term investments 413.7 166.6 gold (3): options - purchased 1.4 0.6 8.0 14.0 - written (0.8) (0.7) (12.0) (20.0) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) a decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points and (3) a decrease in gold prices of 20%. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. (a) in addition, the separate accounts carry positions in equity index futures. a decrease in equity prices of 25% would result in market risk amounting to $(277.0) and $(151.0) at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. this market risk would be offset by decreases in liabilities to customers under variable insurance contracts. 105 other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ december 31 2003 2002 2003 2002 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ (amounts in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 526.9 $ 666.1 $ (129.0) $ (166.0) separate accounts 116.5 112.0 (29.0) (28.0) limited partnership investments 1,261.6 1,156.9 (69.0) (133.0) separate accounts - other invested assets 414.8 387.3 (104.0) (97.0) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) (b) 28,781.3 27,433.7 (1,979.0) (1,650.0) short-term investments (a) 11,264.6 10,161.7 (5.0) (6.0) other invested assets 237.8 241.3 other derivative securities 5.0 18.0 (105.0) (47.0) separate accounts (a): fixed maturities 1,809.2 1,868.1 (114.0) (96.0) short term investments 81.8 109.5 long-term debt (5,871.0) (5,558.0) - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(152.0) and $(148.0) at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (b) certain fixed maturities positions include options embedded in convertible debt securities. a decrease in underlying equity prices of 25% would result in market risk amounting to $(32.0) and $(24.0) at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 106quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. boardwalk pipeline depends on third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to its pipelines. boardwalk pipeline depends upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from its pipelines. for example, gulf south's pipeline system can deliver approximately 500,000 mcf/d to a major pipeline connection with texas eastern at kosciusko, mississippi. if this or any other pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, boardwalk pipeline's ability to continue shipping natural gas to end markets could be restricted. any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect could cause a material reduction in volumes transported on or stored at facilities of boardwalk pipeline. significant changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand and, reduce system throughput. higher natural gas prices could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in the throughput on the boardwalk pipeline systems. in addition, reduced price volatility could reduce the revenues generated by boardwalk pipeline's parking and lending and interruptible storage services. in general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply, changes in demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond boardwalk pipeline's control. these factors include: worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions and seasonal trends; levels of domestic production and consumer demand; the availability of lng; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the effect of energy conservation measures; 47 item 1a. risk factors the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, lng and other commodities. expansion projects and acquisitions involve risks that may adversely affect boardwalk pipeline's business. a principal focus of boardwalk pipeline's strategy is to continue to grow its business through acquisitions, expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets. any acquisition, expansion or new construction involves potential risks, including: performance of boardwalk pipeline's business following the acquisition, expansion or construction of assets that does not meet expectations; a significant increase in boardwalk pipeline's indebtedness and working capital requirements, which could, among other things, have an adverse impact on its credit ratings; the inability to timely and effectively integrate into boardwalk pipeline's operations the operations of newly acquired, expanded or constructed assets; the incurrence of substantial unforeseen environmental and other liabilities, including liabilities arising from the operation of an acquired business or asset; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and regulatory risks created by the nature or location of acquired businesses. any of these factors could result in unforeseen operating difficulties or unanticipated costs or could adversely affect boardwalk pipeline's ability to realize the anticipated benefits from newly acquired, expanded or constructed assets and meet its debt service requirements. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. future acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the businesses of certain of our subsidiaries, including the following: cna financial corporation. cna may bear substantial losses from future acts of terrorism. the terrorism risk insurance extension act of 2005 ( triea ) extended, until december 31, 2007, the program established by the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002. under this program, insurers are required to offer terrorism insurance and the federal government will share the risk of loss by commercial property and casualty insurers arising from future terrorist attacks. triea does not provide complete protection for future losses derived from acts of terrorism. please read information on triea included in the md&amp;a under item 7. diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp. the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies might lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for oil and natural gas, which could affect the market for diamond's offshore oil and gas drilling services and boardwalk pipeline's natural gas transportation, gathering and storage services. in addition, it has been reported that terrorists might target domestic energy facilities. while diamond and boardwalk pipeline take steps that they believe are appropriate to increase the security of their 48 item 1a. risk factors energy assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure their assets, completely protect them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. loews hotels. the travel and tourism industry went into a steep decline in the periods following the 2001 world trade center event which had a negative impact on the occupancy levels and average room rates at loews hotels. future terrorist attacks could similarly lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. certain of our subsidiaries face significant risks related to the impact of hurricanes and other natural disasters. in addition to cna's exposure to catastrophe losses discussed above, the businesses operated by several of our other subsidiaries are exposed to significant harm from the effects of natural disasters, particularly hurricanes and related flooding and other damage. while much of the damage caused by natural disasters is covered by insurance, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be available or be adequate in all cases. these risks include the following: diamond offshore drilling, inc . diamond offshore operates its offshore rig fleet in waters that can be severely impacted by hurricanes and other natural disasters, including the u.s. gulf of mexico. in late august 2005, one of diamond offshore's jack-up drilling rigs, the ocean warwick , was seriously damaged during hurricane katrina and other rigs in diamond's fleet and its warehouse in new iberia, louisiana sustained lesser damage in hurricanes katrina or rita, or in some cases both storms. in addition to damaging or destroying rig equipment, some or all of which may be covered by insurance, catastrophes of this kind result in additional operating expenses for diamond, including the cost of reconnaissance aircraft, rig crew over-time and employee assistance, hurricane relief supplies, temporary housing and office space and the rental of mooring equipment and others which may not be covered by insurance. boardwalk pipeline partners, lp. a substantial portion of the gulf south pipeline assets and a smaller portion of the texas gas pipeline assets are located in the gulf coast region of the united states and, as such, are exposed to the impact of hurricanes, such as hurricanes katrina and rita which struck that region in 2005. boardwalk pipeline experienced a variety of damage from those storms, including damage to its physical facilities and rights of way, loss of customers, such as the city of new orleans, damaged or destroyed by the storm and loss of natural gas supply from facilities of suppliers damaged or destroyed by the storm. in addition, boardwalk pipeline could be required to relocate some of its pipeline facilities, possibly at its expense, as the gulf coast region is reconstructed. loews hotels. hotels operated by loews hotels are exposed to damage, business interruption and reductions in travel and tourism in markets affected by significant natural disasters such as hurricanes. for example, loews hotels' properties located in florida and new orleans suffered significant damage from hurricanes and related flooding during the past two years. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by certain of our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which imposes or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna financial corporation. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the united states. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna's policyholders rather than its investors. each state in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which cna does business. their regulations relate to, among other things: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna's ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance; 49 item 1a. risk factors the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; and limitations on the ability of cna's insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna also is required by the states to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna's share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. lorillard tobacco company . a wide variety of federal laws limit the advertising, sale and use of cigarettes, and these laws have proliferated in recent years. if the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) is granted authority to regulate tobacco products, as has been proposed for many years, lorillard believes such regulation would provide philip morris, as the largest tobacco company in the country, with a competitive advantage. lorillard believes that fda regulations could: require larger and more severe health warnings on packs and cartons; ban the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as low-tar and light ; require the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers; require pre-market approval by the fda for claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; allow the fda to require the reduction or elimination of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; allow the fda to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in conventional cigarettes; place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; permit state regulation of labeling and advertising and eliminate the existing federal preemption of such regulation; and grant the fda the authority to impose broad additional restrictions. in addition, some states have enacted or proposed regulations, including with respect to mandatory disclosure of ingredients, including flavorings, some of which are trade secrets. state and local laws or rules that prohibit or restrict smoking in public places and workplaces continue to be enacted and proposed. lorillard cannot predict the ultimate impact of these laws or regulatory proposals, but believes they will continue to reduce sales and increase costs. extensive and inconsistent regulation by multiple states could prove to be particularly disruptive to lorillard's business. diamond offshore drilling, inc. diamond offshore's operations are affected from time to time in varying degrees by governmental laws and regulations. the drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and 50 item 1a. risk factors regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to diamond's operating costs or may significantly limit drilling activity. boardwalk pipeline partners, lp. boardwalk pipeline's natural gas transportation, gathering and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc and the u.s. department of transportation, among other federal and state authorities. in addition to ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk can charge for its services, which are discussed above, ferc's regulatory authority also extends to: operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services boardwalk may offer to boardwalk's customers; construction of new facilities; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; accounts and records; and relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and electricity businesses. ferc action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact boardwalk's ability to compete for business, the costs incurred in its operations, the construction of new facilities or boardwalk's ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. the united states department of transportation office of pipeline safety requires pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along their pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rule refers to as high consequence areas where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. compliance with these requirements may require additional reporting by boardwalk pipeline, the replacement of some of its pipeline segments, the addition of monitoring equipment, and more frequent inspection or testing of its pipeline facilities. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries face intense competition. each of the businesses operated by our subsidiaries faces intense competition in its industry and will be harmed materially if it is unable to compete effectively. certain of the competitive risks faced by those companies include: cna financial corporation . all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. in addition, the graham-leach-bliley act of 1999 has encouraged growth in the number, size and financial strength of cna's potential competitors by removing barriers that previously prohibited holding companies from simultaneously owning commercial banks, insurers and securities firms. lorillard tobacco company . the cigarette market is highly concentrated, as lorillard's two major competitors, philip morris usa and reynolds american, inc., had a combined market share of approximately 76.9% for the twelve months ended december 31, 2005. reynolds american owns the third and fourth leading menthol brands, kool and salem, which had a combined share of the menthol segment of approximately 19.0% for the twelve months ended december 31, 2005. this concentration of u.s. market share could make it more difficult for lorillard to compete for shelf space in retail outlets, access to which is already exacerbated by the restrictive marketing programs of these larger competitors, and could impact price competition among menthol brands. in addition to competing with major cigarette makers, lorillard competes with a significant number of smaller competitors, many of which are not subject to the same payment obligations under the state settlement agreements 51 item 1a. risk factors as lorillard and thereby enjoy competitive cost and pricing advantages. as a result of their cost and pricing advantages, the smaller manufacturers have developed meaningful market share, principally in the deep discount cigarette segment. market share for the deep discount brands decreased 1.4 share points from 14.7% in the fourth quarter of 2004 to 13.3% in the fourth quarter of 2005, as estimated by management science associates. lorillard's focus on the premium market and its obligations under the state settlement agreements make it very difficult to compete successfully in the deep discount market. diamond offshore drilling, inc. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. some of diamond offshore's competitors may have greater financial or other resources than diamond offshore does. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. intense price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig availability and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced the number of available customers. significant new rig construction could also intensify price competition. diamond believes that there are currently more than 60 drilling units, primarily jack-up rigs, on order for delivery between 2006 and 2009 and approximately another 15 jack-up and semisubmersible rigs are currently being reactivated or scheduled for reactivation, upgrade or conversion for drilling use. in addition, improvements in dayrates and expectations of sustained improvements in rig utilization rates and dayrates may result in the construction of additional new rigs or reactivations. these increases in rig supply could result in depressed rig utilization and greater price competition. boardwalk pipeline partners, lp. boardwalk pipeline competes primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines in the transportation, gathering and storage of natural gas. natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to boardwalk pipeline's customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. the principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. ferc's policies promoting competition in gas markets are having the effect of increasing the gas transportation options for boardwalk pipeline's traditional customer base. as a result, texas gas has begun to experience some turnback of firm capacity as existing transportation service agreements expire and are not renewed. if texas gas is unable to remarket this capacity or can remarket it only at substantially discounted rates compared to previous contracts, it may have to bear the costs associated with the turned back capacity. boardwalk pipeline also competes against intrastate pipelines which have a significant advantage because of the absence of ferc regulation. in view of the greater rate, construction and service flexibility available to intrastate pipelines, boardwalk pipeline may lose customers and throughput to intrastate competitors. increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by boardwalk pipeline could force it to lower its transportation or storage rates. we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation. we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation in the normal course of business. litigation is costly and time consuming to defend and could result in a material expense. please read information on litigation included in the md&amp;a under item 7 and note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included underquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. boardwalk pipeline depends on third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to its pipelines. boardwalk pipeline depends upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from its pipelines. for example, gulf south's pipeline system can deliver approximately 500.0 mcf per day to a major pipeline connection with texas eastern at kosciusko, mississippi. if this or any other pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, boardwalk pipeline's ability to continue shipping natural gas to end markets could be restricted. any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect could cause a material reduction in volumes transported on or stored at facilities of boardwalk pipeline. significant changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand, and reduce system throughput. higher natural gas prices could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in the throughput on the boardwalk pipeline systems. in addition, reduced price volatility could reduce the revenues generated by boardwalk pipeline's parking and lending and interruptible storage services. in general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply, changes in demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond boardwalk pipeline's control. these factors include: worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions and seasonal trends; levels of domestic production and consumer demand; the availability of lng; a material decrease in the price of natural gas could have an adverse effect on the shippers who have contracted for capacity on boardwalk pipeline's planned expansion projects; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the effect of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and 45 item 1a. risk factors the anticipated future prices of natural gas, lng and other commodities. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. diamond offshore's business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices. diamond offshore's business depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic factors significantly affect this level of activity. however, higher commodity prices do not necessarily translate into increased drilling activity since diamond offshore's customers' expectations of future commodity prices typically drive demand for diamond offshore's rigs. oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore's control, including: the political environment of oil-producing regions, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities in the middle east or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; worldwide demand for oil and gas; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; weather conditions in the united states and elsewhere; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, commonly called opec, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; the policies of the various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; and advances in exploration and development technology. diamond offshore's industry is cyclical. diamond offshore's industry has historically been cyclical. there have been periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates (such as diamond offshore is currently experiencing in the markets in which it operates), followed by periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idle for long periods of time. current oil and natural gas prices are significantly above historical averages, which has resulted in higher utilization and dayrates earned by diamond offshore's drilling units, generally beginning in the third quarter of 2004. however, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that the current industry cycle of high demand, short rig supply and higher dayrates will continue. diamond offshore may be required to idle rigs or to enter into lower rate contracts in response to market conditions in the future. 46 item 1a. risk factors prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore's drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. the terms of some of diamond offshore's drilling contracts may limit its ability to benefit from increasing dayrates in a rising market. the duration of offshore drilling contracts is generally determined by market demand and the respective management strategies of the offshore drilling contractor and its customers. in periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, contractors typically prefer well-to-well contracts that allow contractors to profit from increasing dayrates. in contrast, during these periods customers with reasonably definite drilling programs typically prefer longer term contracts to maintain dayrate prices at a consistent level. conversely, in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, contractors generally prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers prefer well-to-well contracts that allow them to obtain the benefit of lower dayrates. to the extent possible, diamond offshore seeks to have a foundation of long-term contracts with a reasonable balance of single-well, well-to-well and short-term contracts to minimize the downside impact of a decline in the market while still participating in the benefit of increasing dayrates in a rising market. however, diamond offshore cannot be sure that it will be able to achieve or maintain such a balance from time to time. diamond offshore's inability to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in a rising market due to the long-term nature of its contracts, may adversely impact its profitability. the majority of diamond offshore's contracts for its drilling units are fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore's operating costs could adversely affect the profitability of those contracts. diamond offshore's contracts for its drilling units provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs incurred. many of diamond offshore's operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond diamond offshore's control. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in diamond offshore's operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate clauses, diamond offshore may be unable to recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore's drilling contracts may be terminated due to events beyond diamond offshore's control. diamond offshore's customers may terminate some of their drilling contracts if the drilling unit is destroyed or lost or if drilling operations are suspended for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore's drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods by tendering contractually specified termination amounts. these termination payments may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. during depressed market conditions, diamond offshore's customers may also seek renegotiation of firm drilling contracts to reduce their obligations. rig conversions, upgrades or newbuilds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore may undertake to add new capacity through conversions or upgrades to rigs or through new construction. diamond offshore has entered into agreements to upgrade two of its drilling units to ultra-deepwater capability at an estimated aggregate cost of $553.0 million. the shipyard portion of the upgrade of one rig has been completed, and diamond offshore expects that the unit will return to the gulf of mexico in mid-2007. diamond offshore expects delivery of its other semisubmersible unit during the fourth quarter of 2008. diamond offshore also has entered into agreements to construct two new jack-up drilling units with delivery expected in the first quarter of 2008 at an aggregate cost of approximately $320.0 million, including drillpipe and capitalized interest. these projects and other projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: 47 item 1a. risk factors shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; weather interferences; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; shipyard failures; and failure or delay of third party service providers and labor disputes. failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract. diamond offshore's business involves numerous operating hazards and diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of them. diamond offshore's operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings and natural disasters such as hurricanes or fires. the occurrence of these events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations and environmental damage. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. in addition, offshore drilling operators are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. diamond offshore may also be subject to damage claims by oil and gas companies or other parties . pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable, and diamond offshore does not typically retain loss-of-hire insurance policies to cover its rigs. diamond offshore's insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover its losses, or may have exclusions of coverage for some losses. diamond offshore does not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks, including, among other things, war risk , liability risk for certain amounts of excess coverage and certain physical damage risk. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity, it could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains or that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will necessarily be financially able to indemnify it against all these risks. in addition, no assurance can be made that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that it will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. diamond offshore significantly increased its insurance deductibles and has elected to self-insure for a portion of its liability exposure and for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico. because the amount of insurance coverage available to diamond offshore has been significantly limited and the cost for such coverage has increased substantially, diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for a portion of its liability exposure and for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico. although diamond offshore continues to carry physical damage insurance for certain other losses, diamond offshore significantly increased its deductibles to offset or mitigate premium increases. diamond offshore's deductible for physical damage insurance is currently $150.0 million per occurrence (or lower for some rigs if they are declared a constructive total loss). diamond offshore continues to carry liability insurance with coverages similar to prior years, except that diamond offshore elected to self-insure for a portion of its excess liability coverage related to named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico. diamond offshore's deductible for liability coverage generally has increased to $5.0 million per occurrence, but its deductibles arising in connection with certain liabilities relating to named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico have increased to $10.0 million per occurrence, with no annual aggregate deductible. to the extent that diamond offshore incurs certain liabilities related to named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico in excess 48 item 1a. risk factors of $75.0 million, diamond offshore is self-insured for up to a maximum retention of $17.5 million per occurrence in addition to these deductibles. these changes result in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. if named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico cause significant damage to diamond offshore's rigs or equipment or to the property of others for which it may be liable , it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. diamond offshore's international operations involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world that may expose it to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; piracy; kidnapping of personnel; expropriation of property or equipment; foreign and domestic monetary policy; the inability to repatriate income or capital; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; and changing taxation policies. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling units; repatriation of foreign earnings; oil and gas exploration and development; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. no prediction can be made as to what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments, including initiatives by opec, may adversely affect diamond offshore's ability to compete. diamond offshore 's drilling contracts in the mexican gom expose it to greater risks than they normally assume. as of the date of this report, diamond offshore has three intermediate semisubmersible rigs and one jack-up rig drilling offshore mexico under contract with pemex, the national oil company of mexico, and has two additional intermediate semisubmersibles contracted to begin working for pemex in the third quarter of 2007. the terms of these contracts expose diamond offshore to greater risks than they normally assume, such as exposure to greater environmental liability, and can be terminated by pemex on short-term notice, contractually or by statute, subject to certain conditions. while diamond offshore believes that the financial terms of these contracts and its operating safeguards in place mitigate these risks, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a negative impact on our future operations or financial results. 49 item 1a. risk factors fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore's international operations, diamond offshore may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that financial hedging arrangements will effectively hedge any foreign currency fluctuation losses that may arise. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. future acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the businesses of certain of our subsidiaries, including the following: cna. cna may bear substantial losses from future acts of terrorism. the terrorism risk insurance extension act of 2005 ( triea ) extended, until december 31, 2007, the program established by the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002. under this program, insurers are required to offer terrorism insurance and the federal government will share the risk of loss by commercial property and casualty insurers arising from future terrorist attacks. triea does not provide complete protection for future losses derived from acts of terrorism. please read information on triea included in the md&amp;a under item 7. diamond offshore and boardwalk pipeline. the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies might lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for oil and natural gas, which could affect the market for diamondoffshore's oil and gas offshore drilling services and boardwalk pipeline's natural gas transportation, gathering and storage services. in addition, it has been reported that terrorists might target domestic energy facilities. while diamond offshore and boardwalk pipeline take steps that they believe are appropriate to increase the security of their energy assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure their assets, completely protect them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. loews hotels. the travel and tourism industry went into a steep decline in the periods following the 2001 world trade center event which had a negative impact on the occupancy levels and average room rates at loews hotels. future terrorist attacks could similarly lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. certain of our subsidiaries face significant risks related to the impact of hurricanes and other natural disasters. in addition to cna's exposure to catastrophe losses discussed above, the businesses operated by several of our other subsidiaries are exposed to significant harm from the effects of natural disasters, particularly hurricanes and related flooding and other damage. while much of the damage caused by natural disasters is covered by insurance, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be available or be adequate in all cases. these risks include the following: boardwalk pipeline. a substantial portion of the gulf south pipeline assets and a smaller portion of the texas gas pipeline assets are located in the gulf coast region of the united states and, as such, are exposed to the impact of hurricanes, such as hurricanes katrina and rita which struck that region in 2005. boardwalk pipeline experienced a variety of damage from those storms, including damage to its physical facilities and rights of way, loss of customers, such as the city of new orleans, damaged or destroyed by the storm and loss of natural gas supply from facilities of suppliers damaged or destroyed by the storm. in addition, boardwalk pipeline could be required to relocate some of its pipeline facilities, possibly at its expense, as the gulf coast region is reconstructed. 50 item 1a. risk factors diamond offshore. diamond offshore operates its offshore rig fleet in waters that can be severely impacted by hurricanes and other natural disasters, including the u.s. gulf of mexico. in late august 2005, one of diamond offshore's jack-up drilling rigs, the ocean warwick , was seriously damaged during hurricane katrina and other rigs in diamond's fleet and its warehouse in new iberia, louisiana sustained lesser damage in hurricanes katrina or rita, or in some cases both storms. in addition to damaging or destroying rig equipment, some or all of which may be covered by insurance, catastrophes of this kind result in additional operating expenses for diamond, including the cost of reconnaissance aircraft, rig crew over-time and employee assistance, hurricane relief supplies, temporary housing and office space and the rental of mooring equipment and others which may not be covered by insurance. loews hotels. hotels operated by loews hotels are exposed to damage, business interruption and reductions in travel and tourism in markets affected by significant natural disasters such as hurricanes. for example, loews hotels' properties located in florida and new orleans suffered significant damage from hurricanes and related flooding during the past two years. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by certain of our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which imposes or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the united states. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna's policyholders rather than its investors. each state in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which cna does business. their regulations relate to, among other things: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna's ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies; licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; and limitations on the ability of cna's insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna also is required by the states to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna's share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. lorillard . a wide variety of federal and state laws and local regulations limit the advertising, sale and use of cigarettes, and these laws have proliferated in recent years. if the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) is granted authority to regulate tobacco products, as has been proposed for many years, lorillard believes such regulation would 51 item 1a. risk factors provide philip morris, as the largest tobacco company in the country, with a competitive advantage. lorillard believes that fda regulations could: require larger and more severe health warnings on packs and cartons; ban the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as low-tar and light ; require the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers; require pre-market approval by the fda for claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; allow the fda to require the reduction or elimination of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; allow the fda to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in conventional cigarettes; place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; permit state regulation of labeling and advertising and eliminate the existing federal preemption of such regulation; and grant the fda the authority to impose broad additional restrictions. in addition, some states have enacted or proposed regulations, including with respect to mandatory disclosure of ingredients, including flavorings, some of which are trade secrets. state and local laws or rules that prohibit or restrict smoking in public places and workplaces continue to be enacted and proposed. lorillard cannot predict the ultimate impact of these laws or regulatory proposals, but believes they will continue to reduce sales and increase costs. extensive and inconsistent regulation by multiple states could prove to be particularly disruptive to lorillard's business. boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline's natural gas transportation, gathering and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc and the united states department of transportation, among other federal and state authorities. in addition to the ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, the ferc's regulatory authority also extends to: operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer to its customers; construction of new facilities; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; accounts and records; and relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and electricity businesses. the ferc action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline's ability to compete for business, the costs incurred in its operations, the construction of new facilities or boardwalk pipeline's ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. another example is the time the ferc takes to approve the construction of new facilities, which could give boardwalk pipeline's non-regulated competitors time to offer alternative projects or raise the costs of boardwalk pipeline's projects to the point where they are no longer economical. the united states department of transportation office of pipeline safety has issued a final rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along their pipelines and 52 item 1a. risk factors take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rule refers to as high consequence areas ( hcas ) where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. diamond offshore. diamond offshore's operations are affected from time to time in varying degrees by governmental laws and regulations. the drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to diamond offshore's operating costs or may significantly limit drilling activity. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries face intense competition. each of the businesses operated by our subsidiaries faces intense competition in its industry and will be harmed materially if it is unable to compete effectively. certain of the competitive risks faced by those companies include: cna . all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. in addition, the graham-leach-bliley act of 1999 has encouraged growth in the number, size and financial strength of cna's potential competitors by removing barriers that previously prohibited holding companies from simultaneously owning commercial banks, insurers and securities firms. lorillard . the cigarette market is highly concentrated, as lorillard's two major competitors, philip morris usa and reynolds american, inc., had a combined market share of approximately 77.1% for the year ended december 31, 2006. reynolds american owns the third and fourth leading menthol brands, kool and salem, which had a combined share of the menthol segment of approximately 18.3% for the year ended december 31, 2006. this concentration of u.s. market share could make it more difficult for lorillard to compete for shelf space in retail outlets, access to which is already exacerbated by the restrictive marketing programs of these larger competitors, and could impact price competition among menthol brands. in addition to competing with major cigarette makers, lorillard competes with a significant number of smaller competitors, many of which are not subject to the same payment obligations under the state settlement agreements as lorillard and thereby enjoy competitive cost and pricing advantages. as a result of their cost and pricing advantages, the smaller manufacturers have developed meaningful market share, principally in the deep discount cigarette segment. lorillard's focus on the premium market and its obligations under the state settlement agreements make it very difficult to compete successfully in the deep discount market. diamond offshore. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. some of diamond offshore's competitors may have greater financial or other resources than diamond offshore. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. intense price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig availability and location, a drilling contractor's safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced the number of available customers. diamond offshore's industry has historically been cyclical. there have been periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates (such as we are currently experiencing), followed by periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and lower dayrates. periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idle for long periods of time. although oil and natural gas prices are currently significantly above historical averages, resulting in higher utilization and dayrates earned by diamond offshore's drilling units, generally beginning in the third quarter of 2004, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that the current industry cycle of high demand, short rig supply and higher dayrates will continue. diamond offshore may be required to idle rigs or to enter into lower rate contracts in response to market conditions in the future. 53 item 1a. risk factors significant new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling units could also intensify price competition. diamond offshore believes that there are currently 100 jack-up rigs and floaters (semisubmersible rigs and drillships) on order and scheduled for delivery between 2007 and 2010. improvements in dayrates and expectations of sustained improvements in rig utilization rates and dayrates may result in the construction of additional new rigs. these increases in rig supply could result in depressed rig utilization and greater price competition from both existing competitors, as well as new entrants into the offshore drilling market. as of the date of this report, not all of the rigs currently under construction have contracted for future work, which may further intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. in addition, competing contractors are able to adjust localized supply and demand imbalances by moving rigs from areas of low utilization and dayrates to areas of greater activity and relatively higher dayrates. boardwalk pipeline. boardwalk pipeline competes primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines in the transportation and storage of natural gas. natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to boardwalk pipeline's customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. the principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. the ferc's policies promoting competition in gas markets are having the effect of increasing the gas transportation options for boardwalk pipeline's traditional customer base. increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by boardwalk pipeline's systems or, in cases where boardwalk pipeline does not have long-term fixed rate contracts, could force boardwalk pipeline to lower its transportation or storage rates. competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by boardwalk pipeline's systems, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, a recession or other adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. boardwalk pipeline's ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors. boardwalk pipeline also competes against a number of intrastate pipelines which have significant regulatory advantages over its and other interstate pipelines because of the absence of ferc regulation. in view of potential rate increases, construction and service flexibility available to intrastate pipelines, boardwalk pipeline may lose customers and throughput to intrastate competitors. we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation. we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation in the normal course of business. litigation is costly and time consuming to defend and could result in a material expense. please read information on litigation included in the md&amp;a under item 7 and note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included underquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. boardwalk pipeline depends on third party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to its pipelines boardwalk pipeline depends upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from its pipelines. for example, boardwalk pipeline's pipeline system can deliver approximately 500 mmcf per day to a major pipeline connection with texas eastern at kosciusko, mississippi. if this or any other pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, boardwalk pipeline's ability to continue shipping natural gas to end markets could be restricted. any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect could cause a material reduction in volumes transported on or stored at facilities of boardwalk pipeline. 57 item 1a. risk factors significant changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand, and reduce system throughput. higher natural gas prices could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in the throughput on the boardwalk pipeline systems. in addition, reduced price volatility could reduce the revenues generated by boardwalk pipeline's parking and lending and interruptible storage services. in general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply, changes in demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond boardwalk pipeline's control. these factors include: worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions and seasonal trends; levels of domestic production and consumer demand; the availability of lng; a material decrease in the price of natural gas could have an adverse effect on the shippers who have contracted for capacity on boardwalk pipeline's planned expansion projects; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the effect of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, lng and other commodities. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. future acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the businesses of certain of our subsidiaries, including the following: cna. cna continues to face exposure to losses arising from terrorist acts, despite the passage of the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007. the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007 extended, until december 31, 2014, the program established within the u.s. department of treasury by the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002. this program requires insurers to offer terrorism coverage and the federal government to share in insured losses arising from acts of terrorism. given the unpredictability of the nature, targets, severity and frequency of potential terrorist acts, this program does not provide complete protection for future losses derived from acts of terrorism. further, the laws of certain states restrict our ability to mitigate this residual exposure. for example, some states mandate property insurance coverage of damage from fire following a loss, thereby prohibiting cna from excluding terrorism exposure. in addition, some states generally prohibit cna from excluding terrorism exposure from its primary workers' compensation policies. consequently, there is substantial uncertainty as to cna's ability to contain its terrorism exposure effectively since cna continues to issue forms of coverage, in particular, workers' compensation, that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. 58 item 1a. risk factors diamond offshore, boardwalk pipeline and highmount. the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies might lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for oil and gas, which could affect the market for diamond offshore's oil and gas offshore drilling services, boardwalk pipeline's natural gas transportation, gathering and storage services and highmount's natural gas exploration and production activities. in addition, it has been reported that terrorists might target domestic energy facilities. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to increase the security of their energy assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure their assets, completely protect them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. loews hotels. the travel and tourism industry went into a steep decline in the periods following the 2001 world trade center event which had a negative impact on the occupancy levels and average room rates at loews hotels. future terrorist attacks could similarly lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. certain of our subsidiaries face significant risks related to the impact of hurricanes and other natural disasters. in addition to cna's exposure to catastrophe losses discussed above, the businesses operated by several of our other subsidiaries are exposed to significant harm from the effects of natural disasters, particularly hurricanes and related flooding and other damage. while much of the damage caused by natural disasters is covered by insurance, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be available or be adequate in all cases. these risks include the following: diamond offshore. diamond offshore operates its offshore rig fleet in waters that can be severely impacted by hurricanes and other natural disasters, including the u.s. gulf of mexico. in late august 2005, one of diamond offshore's jack-up drilling rigs, the ocean warwick , was seriously damaged during hurricane katrina and other rigs in diamond's fleet and its warehouse in new iberia, louisiana sustained lesser damage in hurricanes katrina or rita, or in some cases both storms. in addition to damaging or destroying rig equipment, some or all of which may be covered by insurance, catastrophes of this kind result in additional operating expenses for diamond offshore, including the cost of reconnaissance aircraft, rig crew over-time and employee assistance, hurricane relief supplies, temporary housing and office space and the rental of mooring equipment and others which may not be covered by insurance. boardwalk pipeline. the nature and location of boardwalk pipeline's business, particularly with regard to its assets in the gulf coast region, may make boardwalk pipeline susceptible to catastrophic losses especially from hurricanes or named storms. various other events can cause catastrophic losses, including windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, and severe winter weather and fires. the frequency and severity of these events are inherently unpredictable. the extent of losses from catastrophes is a function of both the total amount of insured exposures in the affected areas and the severity of the events themselves. although boardwalk pipeline carries insurance, in the event of a loss the coverage could be insufficient or there could be a material delay in the receipt of the insurance proceeds. loews hotels. hotels operated by loews hotels are exposed to damage, business interruption and reductions in travel and tourism in markets affected by significant natural disasters such as hurricanes. for example, loews hotels' properties located in florida and new orleans suffered significant damage from hurricanes and related flooding during the past three years. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by certain of our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which imposes or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the united states. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna's policyholders rather than its investors. each state in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which cna does business. their regulations relate to, among other things: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; 59 item 1a. risk factors restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna's ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; limitations on the ability of cna's insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna also is required by the states to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna's share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. lorillard . a bill that would grant the fda authority to regulate tobacco products was introduced in congress in february 2007. the bill is being supported by philip morris and opposed by lorillard, rai and most other tobacco manufacturers. it has been considered in hearings by congressional committees in both houses of congress during 2007, and one senate committee has approved the bill with certain modifications. lorillard is aware of reports that a subcommittee of the house of representatives will likely schedule a hearing on this bill in early march of 2008. the proposed bill would: require larger and more severe health warnings on packs and cartons; ban the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as low-tar and light ; require the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers; require pre-market approval by the fda for claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; require the reduction or elimination of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; allow the fda to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in conventional cigarettes; allow the fda to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; permit inconsistent state regulation of labeling and advertising and eliminate the existing federal preemption of such regulation; and grant the fda the regulatory authority to impose broad additional restrictions. in addition, some states have enacted or proposed regulations, including with respect to mandatory disclosure of ingredients, including flavorings, some of which are trade secrets. state and local laws or rules that prohibit or restrict smoking in public places and workplaces continue to be enacted and proposed. lorillard cannot predict the ultimate 60 item 1a. risk factors impact of these laws or regulatory proposals, but believes they will continue to reduce sales and increase costs. extensive and inconsistent regulation by multiple states could prove to be particularly disruptive to lorillard's business. it is possible that such additional regulation could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the united states (including sales of lorillard brands) and an increase in costs, to lorillard, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we believe that such regulation may adversely affect lorillard's ability to compete against its larger competitors, including philip morris, who may be able to more quickly and cost-effectively comply with these new rules and regulations. diamond offshore. diamond offshore's operations are affected from time to time in varying degrees by governmental laws and regulations. the drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to diamond offshore's operating costs or may significantly limit drilling activity. governments in some foreign countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore's operations by limiting drilling opportunities. the minerals management service of the u.s. department of the interior, or mms, has established guidelines for drilling operations in the gom. diamond offshore believes that it is currently in compliance with the existing regulations set forth by the mms with respect to its operations in the gom; however, these regulations are continually under review. implementation of additional mms regulations may subject diamond offshore to increased costs of operating, or a reduction in the area and/or periods of operation, in the gom. highmount. all of highmount's operations are conducted onshore in the united states. the u.s. oil and gas industry, and highmount's operations, are subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. such regulation includes requirements with respect to, among other things: permits to drill and to conduct other operations; provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations; the location of wells; the method of drilling and completing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; and the valuation and payment of royalties; the size of drilling and spacing units (regarding the density of wells which may be drilled in a particular area); the unitization or pooling of natural gas and oil properties; maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells; venting or flaring of natural gas and the ratability of production. highmount's operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of contaminants into the environment, the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of contaminants, and the protection of public health, natural resources, wildlife and the environment. in most instances, the regulatory requirements relate to the handling and disposal of drilling and production waste products, water and air pollution control procedures, and the remediation of petroleum-product contamination. in addition, highmount's operations may require it to obtain permits for, among other things, air emissions, discharges into surface waters, and the construction and operation of underground injection wells or surface pits to dispose of produced saltwater and other non-hazardous oilfield wastes. boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline's natural gas transportation, gathering and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc and the united states department of transportation, among other federal and state authorities. in addition to the ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, the ferc's regulatory authority also extends to: operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer to its customers; 61 item 1a. risk factors construction of new facilities; acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; accounts and records; and relationships with affiliated companies involved in all aspects of the natural gas and electricity businesses. the ferc action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline's ability to compete for business, the costs incurred in its operations, the construction of new facilities or boardwalk pipeline's ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. another example is the time the ferc takes to approve the construction of new facilities, which could give boardwalk pipeline's non-regulated competitors time to offer alternative projects or raise the costs of boardwalk pipeline's projects to the point where they are no longer economical. the united states department of transportation pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration has issued a final rule requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along their pipelines and take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rule refers to as high consequence areas ( hcas ) where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries face intense competition. each of the businesses operated by our subsidiaries faces intense competition in its industry and will be harmed materially if it is unable to compete effectively. certain of the competitive risks faced by those companies include: cna . all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. lorillard. lorillard competes primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. lorillard is subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of its business. the competitive environment and lorillard's competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors' introduction of low-priced products or innovative products, higher cigarette taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products. lorillard's principal competitors are the two other major u.s. cigarette manufacturers, philip morris and rai. rai was formed in 2004 as a result of the merger of r.j. reynolds tobacco company (now a wholly owned subsidiary of rai) and the u.s. operations of brown &amp; williamson holdings, inc. (formerly known as brown &amp; williamson tobacco corporation and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of british american tobacco p.l.c.). lorillard also competes against numerous other smaller manufacturers or importers of cigarettes. if lorillard's major competitors were to significantly increase the level of price discounts offered to consumers, lorillard could respond by increasing price discounts, which could have a materially adverse effect on its profitability and results of operations. diamond offshore. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. some of diamond offshore's competitors may have greater financial or other resources than diamond offshore. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. intense price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig availability and location, a drilling contractor's safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. mergers among oil and gas exploration and production companies have reduced the number of available customers. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in recent years and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. 62 item 1a. risk factors highmount. highmount competes with other oil and gas companies in all aspects of its business, including acquisition of producing properties and leases and obtaining goods, services and labor, including drilling rigs and well completion services. highmount also competes in the marketing of produced natural gas and ngls. some of highmount's competitors have substantially larger financial and other resources than highmount. factors that affect highmount's ability to acquire producing properties include available funds, available information about the property and standards established by highmount for minimum projected return on investment. competition for sales of natural gas and ngls is also presented by alternative fuel sources, including heating oil, imported liquefied natural gas and other fossil fuels. boardwalk pipeline. boardwalk pipeline competes primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines in the transportation and storage of natural gas. natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to boardwalk pipeline's customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. the principal elements of competition among pipelines are rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. the ferc's policies promoting competition in gas markets are having the effect of increasing the gas transportation options for boardwalk pipeline's traditional customer base. increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by boardwalk pipeline's systems or, in cases where boardwalk pipeline does not have long term fixed rate contracts, could force boardwalk pipeline to lower its transportation or storage rates. competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by boardwalk pipeline's systems, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, a recession or other adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. boardwalk pipeline's ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of its competitors. boardwalk pipeline also competes against a number of intrastate pipelines which have significant regulatory advantages over its and other interstate pipelines because of the absence of ferc regulation. in view of potential rate increases, construction and service flexibility available to intrastate pipelines, boardwalk pipeline may lose customers and throughput to intrastate competitors. we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation. we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation in the normal course of business. litigation is costly and time consuming to defend and could result in a material expense. please read information on litigation included in the md&amp;a under item 7 and note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate risk by evaluating the change in the value of our financial assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in interest rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders' equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one-year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the market value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2007 and 2006 due to instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders' equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $333 million and $560 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $350 million and $353 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively. highmount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $1.6 billion to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate at 5.8%. gains or losses from derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the hedged transaction. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2007 and 2006, with all other variables held constant. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency. this exposure is mitigated by our asset/liability matching strategy and through the use of futures for those instruments which are not matched. our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in australian dollars, canadian dollars, british pounds, japanese yen and the european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2007 and 2006, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase in commodity prices of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2007 and 2006. the impact of a change in commodity prices on highmount's non-trading commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. 134 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk credit risk we are exposed to credit risk which relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline has exposure related to receivables for services provided, as well as volumes owed by customers for imbalances or gas lent by boardwalk pipeline to them generally under parking and lending services and no-notice services. boardwalk pipeline maintains credit policies intended to minimize this risk and actively monitors these policies. natural gas price volatility has increased dramatically in recent years, which has materially increased boardwalk pipeline's credit risk related to gas loaned to its customers. as of december 31, 2007, the amount of gas loaned out was approximately 12.7 trillion british thermal units ( tbtu ) and, assuming an average market price during december 2007 of $7.13 per million british thermal units ( mmbtu ), the market value of gas loaned out at december 31, 2007 would have been approximately $91 million. if any significant customer should have credit or financial problems resulting in a delay or failure to repay the gas it owes boardwalk pipeline, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the following tables present our market risk by category (equity markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2007 2006 2007 2006 (amounts in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities (a) $ 744 $ 686 $ (186 ) $ (171 ) futures short 102 options purchased 35 26 1 (1 ) written (16 ) (13 ) (5 ) 9 short sales (84 ) (62 ) 21 15 limited partnership investments 443 343 (30 ) (27 ) interest rate (2): futures long (9 ) (29 ) futures short 21 interest rate swaps long (1 ) (4 ) fixed maturities long 582 1,922 (4 ) (38 ) fixed maturities short (16 ) 2 short term investments 2,628 4,385 other derivatives 2 (3 ) 9 commodities (3): options purchased 1 (1 ) written 1 note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points and (3) an increase in commodity prices of 20%. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. (a) a decrease in equity prices of 25% would result in market risk amounting to $(171) and $(162) at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. this market risk would be offset by decreases in liabilities to customers under variable insurance contracts. 135 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2007 2006 2007 2006 (amounts in millions) equity markets (1) : equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 568 $ 597 $ (142 ) $ (149 ) separate accounts 45 41 (11 ) (10 ) limited partnership investments 1,927 1,818 (118 ) (143 ) interest rate (2) : fixed maturities (a)(b) 34,081 35,648 (1,900 ) (1,959 ) short term investments (a) 6,843 8,418 (4 ) (5 ) other invested assets 8 21 interest rate swaps and other (c) (88 ) 81 other derivative securities 38 5 33 190 separate accounts (a) : fixed maturities 419 434 (20 ) (21 ) short term investments 6 21 debt (7,204 ) (5,443 ) commodities (3) forwards short (c) 11 (119 ) forwards long 3 note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in interest rates of 100 basis points and (3) an increase in commodity prices of 20%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(317) and $(283) at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (b) certain fixed maturities positions include options embedded in convertible debt securities. a decrease in underlying equity prices of 25% would result in market risk amounting to $(106) and $(227) at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (c) the market risk at december 31, 2007 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 136 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data. financial statements and supplementary data are comprised of the following sections: page no. consolidated balance sheets 138 consolidated statements of income 140 consolidated statements of shareholders' equity 142 consolidated statements of cash flows 143 notes to consolidated financial statements: 1. summary of significant accounting policies 145 2. investments 155 3. fair value of financial instruments 161 4. derivative financial instruments 162 5. earnings per share 166 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information 167 7. receivables 175 8. property, plant and equipment 176 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves 177 10. leases 190 11. income taxes 190 12. debt 193 13. comprehensive income (loss) 196 14. significant transactions 196 15. restructuring and other related charges 197 16. statutory accounting practices (unaudited) 198 17. supplemental natural gas and ngl information (unaudited) 199 18. benefit plans 201 19. reinsurance 207 20. quarterly financial data (unaudited) 211 21. legal proceedings 212 22. commitments and contingencies 220 23. discontinued operations 222 24. business segments 223 25. consolidating financial information 227 137 loews corporation and subsidiaries consolidated balance sheets assets: december 31 2007 2006 (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) investments (notes 1, 2, 3 and 4): fixed maturities, amortized cost of $34,816 and $36,853 $ 34,663 $ 37,570 equity securities, cost of $1,143 and $967 1,347 1,309 limited partnership investments 2,370 2,161 other investments 72 27 short term investments 9,471 12,803 total investments 47,923 53,870 cash 141 118 receivables (notes 1 and 7) 11,677 12,936 property, plant and equipment (notes 1 and 8) 10,425 5,490 deferred income taxes (note 11) 999 606 goodwill and other intangible assets (note 1 and 14) 1,353 294 other assets (notes 1, 14, 18, 19 and 23) 1,924 1,874 deferred acquisition costs of insurance subsidiaries (note 1) 1,161 1,190 separate account business (notes 1, 3 and 4) 476 503 total assets $ 76,079 $ 76,881 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 138 loews corporation and subsidiaries consolidated balance sheets liabilities and shareholders' equity: december 31 2007 2006 (dollar amounts in millions, except per share data) insurance reserves (notes 1 and 9): claim and claim adjustment expenses $ 28,588 $ 29,636 future policy benefits 7,106 6,645 unearned premiums 3,597 3,784 policyholders' funds 930 1,015 total insurance reserves 40,221 41,080 payable for securities purchased (note 4) 544 1,047 collateral on loaned securities (notes 1 and 2) 63 3,602 short term debt (notes 3 and 12) 358 4 long term debt (notes 3 and 12) 6,900 5,568 reinsurance balances payable (notes 1 and 19) 401 539 other liabilities (notes 1, 3, 15, 18 and 23) 5,627 5,140 separate account business (notes 1, 3 and 4) 476 503 total liabilities 54,590 57,483 minority interest 3,898 2,896 commitments and contingent liabilities (notes 1, 2, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 21 and 22) shareholders' equity (notes 1, 2, 5, 12 and 13): preferred stock, $0.10 par value: authorized - 100,000,000 shares loews common stock, $0.01 par value: authorized 1,800,000,000 shares issued and outstanding 529,683,628 and 544,203,457 shares 5 5 carolina group stock, $0.01 par value: authorized - 600,000,000 shares issued 108,799,141 and 108,665,806 shares 1 1 additional paid-in capital 3,967 4,018 earnings retained in the business 13,691 12,099 accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (65 ) 387 17,599 16,510 less treasury stock, at cost (340,000 shares of carolina group stock as of december 31, 2007 and 2006) 8 8 total shareholders' equity 17,591 16,502 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 76,079 $ 76,881 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 139 loews corporation and subsidiaries consolidated statements of income year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share data) revenues (note 1): insurance premiums (note 19) $ 7,482 $ 7,603 $ 7,569 net investment income (note 2) 2,891 2,910 2,098 investment gains (losses) (note 2) (273 ) 92 (13 ) gain on issuance of subsidiary stock (note 14) 141 9 manufactured products (including excise taxes of $688, $699 and $676) 3,969 3,755 3,568 contract drilling revenues 2,506 1,987 1,179 other 1,664 1,346 1,431 total 18,380 17,702 15,832 expenses (note 1): insurance claims and policyholders' benefits (notes 9 and 19) 6,009 6,047 6,999 amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,520 1,534 1,543 cost of manufactured products sold (note 21) 2,307 2,160 2,114 contract drilling expenses 1,011 812 639 other operating expenses 2,640 2,410 2,346 restructuring and other related charges (note 15) (13 ) interest 318 304 364 total 13,805 13,254 14,005 4,575 4,448 1,827 income tax expense (note 11) 1,481 1,442 483 minority interest 613 504 163 total 2,094 1,946 646 income from continuing operations 2,481 2,502 1,181 discontinued operations, net (note 23) 8 (11 ) 31 net income $ 2,489 $ 2,491 $ 1,212 net income attributable to (note 5): loews common stock: income from continuing operations $ 1,948 $ 2,086 $ 930 discontinued operations, net 8 (11 ) 31 loews common stock 1,956 2,075 961 carolina group stock 533 416 251 total $ 2,489 $ 2,491 $ 1,212 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 140 loews corporation and subsidiaries consolidated statements of income year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share data) basic net income per loews common share (note 5): income from continuing operations $ 3.65 $ 3.77 $ 1.67 discontinued operations, net 0.01 (0.02 ) 0.05 net income $ 3.66 $ 3.75 $ 1.72 basic net income per carolina group share (note 5) $ 4.92 $ 4.46 $ 3.62 diluted net income per loews common share (note 5): income from continuing operations $ 3.64 $ 3.77 $ 1.67 discontinued operations, net 0.01 (0.02 ) 0.05 net income $ 3.65 $ 3.75 $ 1.72 diluted net income per carolina group share (note 5) $ 4.91 $ 4.46 $ 3.62 basic weighted average number of shares outstanding: loews common stock 534.79 552.68 557.10 carolina group stock 108.43 93.37 69.40 diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding: loews common stock 536.00 553.54 557.96 carolina group stock 108.57 93.47 69.49 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 141 loews corporation and subsidiaries consolidated statements of shareholders' equity earnings accumulated common comprehensive loews carolina additional retained other stock income common group paid-in in the comprehensive held in (loss) stock stock capital business income treasury (in millions, except per share data) balance, january 1, 2005 $ 6 $ 1 $ 1,981 $ 9,393 $ 597 $ (8 ) comprehensive income: net income $ 1,212 1,212 other comprehensive losses (286 ) (286 ) comprehensive income $ 926 dividends paid: loews common stock, $0.20 per share (111 ) carolina group stock, $1.82 per share (129 ) issuance of loews common stock 16 issuance of carolina group stock (note 6) 421 balance, december 31, 2005 6 1 2,418 10,365 311 (8 ) comprehensive income: net income $ 2,491 2,491 other comprehensive gains 219 219 comprehensive income $ 2,710 adjustment to initially apply sfas no. 158 (note 1) (143 ) dividends paid: loews common stock, $0.24 per share (131 ) carolina group stock, $1.82 per share (177 ) purchase of loews treasury stock (510 ) retirement of treasury stock (1 ) (60 ) (449 ) 510 issuance of loews common stock 17 issuance of carolina group stock (note 6) 1,631 stock-based compensation 9 other 3 balance, december 31, 2006 5 1 4,018 12,099 387 (8 ) adjustment to initially apply: fin no. 48 (note 1) (37 ) fsp ftb 85-4-1 (note 1) 34 balance, january 1, 2007 as adjusted 5 1 4,018 12,096 387 (8 ) comprehensive income: net income $ 2,489 2,489 other comprehensive losses (452 ) comprehensive income $ 2,037 (452 ) dividends paid: loews common stock, $0.25 per share (134 ) carolina group stock, $1.82 per share (197 ) purchase of loews treasury stock (672 ) retirement of treasury stock (111 ) (561 ) 672 issuance of loews common stock 5 issuance of carolina group stock 3 stock-based compensation 23 other (2 ) tax benefit related to imputed interest on diamond offshore's 1.5% debentures (note 14) 29 balance, december 31, 2007 $ 5 $ 1 $ 3,967 $ 13,691 $ (65 ) $ (8 ) see notes to consolidated financial statements. 142 loews corporation and subsidiaries consolidated statements of cash flows year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) operating activities: net income $ 2,489 $ 2,491 $ 1,212 adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided (used) by operating activities: (income) loss from discontinued operations (8 ) 11 (31 ) provision for doubtful accounts and cash discounts 170 207 51 investment (gains) losses 132 (101 ) 13 undistributed earnings (141 ) (206 ) (79 ) provision for minority interest 613 504 163 amortization of investments (290 ) (408 ) (208 ) depreciation, depletion and amortization 511 399 381 provision for deferred income taxes (43 ) 255 (110 ) other non-cash items (3 ) 2 (2 ) changes in operating assets and liabilities-net: reinsurance receivables 1,258 2,489 3,451 other receivables (115 ) (463 ) 326 prepaid reinsurance premiums 72 (2 ) 788 deferred acquisition costs 29 7 71 insurance reserves (830 ) (771 ) (943 ) reinsurance balances payable (138 ) (1,097 ) (1,344 ) other liabilities 321 390 14 trading securities 1,797 (2,024 ) (126 ) other, net (167 ) 23 (212 ) net cash flow operating activities - continuing operations 5,657 1,706 3,415 net cash flow operating activities - discontinued operations 14 9 (48 ) net cash flow operating activities - total 5,671 1,715 3,367 investing activities: purchases of fixed maturities (73,157 ) (63,517 ) (80,805 ) proceeds from sales of fixed maturities 69,012 52,413 68,772 proceeds from maturities of fixed maturities 4,744 9,090 11,299 purchases of equity securities (239 ) (352 ) (482 ) proceeds from sales of equity securities 340 221 316 purchases of property and equipment (2,297 ) (934 ) (478 ) proceeds from sales of property and equipment 37 24 85 change in collateral on loaned securities (3,539 ) 2,834 (150 ) change in short term investments 2,489 (2,290 ) (637 ) sales of businesses, net of cash 57 change in other investments (214 ) (178 ) 230 acquisition of businesses, net of cash (4,029 ) net cash flow investing activities - continuing operations (6,853 ) (2,689 ) (1,793 ) net cash flow investing activities - discontinued operations 38 52 19 net cash flow investing activities - total (6,815 ) (2,637 ) (1,774 ) 143 loews corporation and subsidiaries consolidated statements of cash flows year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) financing activities: dividends paid $ (331 ) $ (308 ) $ (240 ) dividends paid to minority interests (454 ) (138 ) (22 ) purchases of treasury shares (672 ) (510 ) issuance of common stock 8 1,642 432 proceeds from subsidiary stock offering 535 430 271 principal payments on debt (5 ) (730 ) (3,278 ) issuance of debt 2,142 1,097 1,460 receipts of investment contract account balances 3 4 7 return of investment contract account balances (122 ) (589 ) (281 ) excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements 10 7 other 11 9 6 net cash flow financing activities - continuing operations 1,125 914 (1,645 ) effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash - continuing operations 5 net change in cash (14 ) (8 ) (52 ) net cash transactions from: continuing operations to discontinued operations 89 43 (34 ) discontinued operations to continuing operations (89 ) (43 ) 34 cash, beginning of year 174 182 234 cash, end of year $ 160 $ 174 $ 182 cash, end of year: continuing operations $ 141 $ 118 $ 144 discontinued operations 19 56 38 total $ 160 $ 174 $ 182 see notes to consolidated financial statements. 144 loews corporation and subsidiaries notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies basis of presentation - loews corporation is a holding company. its subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business: commercial property and casualty insurance (cna financial corporation ( cna ), an 89% owned subsidiary); the production and sale of cigarettes (lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ), a wholly owned subsidiary); the operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (diamond offshore drilling, inc. ( diamond offshore ), a 51% owned subsidiary); exploration, production and marketing of natural gas and natural gas liquids (highmount exploration &amp; production llc ( highmount ), a wholly owed subsidiary); the operation of interstate natural gas transmission pipeline systems (boardwalk pipeline partners, lp ( boardwalk pipeline ), a 70% owned subsidiary); and the operation of hotels (loews hotels holding corporation ( loews hotels ), a wholly owned subsidiary). the company sold bulova corporation ( bulova ) to citizen watch co., ltd. for approximately $250 million, subject to adjustment, in january of 2008. unless the context otherwise requires, the terms company, loews and registrant as used herein mean loews corporation excluding its subsidiaries. on july 31, 2007, highmount acquired certain exploration and production assets, and assumed certain related obligations, from subsidiaries of dominion resources, inc. ( dominion ) for $4.0 billion, subject to adjustment. (see note 14.) on december 17, 2007, the company announced that its board of directors has approved a plan to dispose of its entire ownership interest in lorillard in a tax-free manner, resulting in the elimination of the carolina group, and all of the carolina group stock, and establishing lorillard as an independent public company. the disposition would be accomplished through (i) redemption of all outstanding carolina group stock in exchange for shares of lorillard common stock, with holders of carolina group stock receiving one share of lorillard common stock in exchange for each share of carolina group stock they currently own, and (ii) disposition of the company's remaining lorillard common stock in an exchange offer for shares of outstanding loews common stock or, if the company determines not to effect the exchange offer or if the exchange offer is not fully subscribed, as a pro rata dividend to holders of loews common stock. principles of consolidation the consolidated financial statements include all significant subsidiaries and all material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. the equity method of accounting is used for investments in associated companies in which the company generally has an interest of 20% to 50%. accounting estimates the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. actual results could differ from those estimates. accounting changes - in march of 2006, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued fasb staff position ( fsp ) ftb 85-4-1, accounting for life settlement contracts by third party investors. a life settlement contract for purposes of fsp ftb 85-4-1 is a contract between the owner of a life insurance policy (the policy owner ) and a third party investor ( investor ). the previous accounting guidance, fasb technical bulletin ( ftb ) no. 85-4, accounting for purchases of life insurance, required the purchaser of life insurance contracts to account for the life insurance contract at its cash surrender value. because life insurance contracts are purchased in the secondary market at amounts in excess of the policies' cash surrender values, the application of guidance in ftb no. 85-4 created a loss upon acquisition of policies. fsp ftb 85-4-1 provides initial and subsequent measurement guidance and financial statement presentation and disclosure guidance for investments by third party investors in life settlement contracts. fsp ftb 85-4-1 allows an investor to elect to account for its investments in life settlement contracts using either the investment method or the fair value method. the election shall be made on an instrument-by-instrument basis and is irrevocable. the company adopted fsp ftb 85-4-1 on january 1, 2007. prior to 2002, cna purchased investments in life settlement contracts. under a life settlement contract, cna obtained the ownership and beneficiary rights of an underlying life insurance policy. cna elected to account for its investments in life settlement contracts using the fair value method and the initial impact upon adoption of fsp ftb 145 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) 85-4-1 under the fair value method was an increase to retained earnings of $34 million, net of tax and minority interest. under the fair value method, each life settlement contract is carried at its fair value at the end of each reporting period. the change in fair value, life insurance proceeds received and periodic maintenance costs, such as premiums, necessary to keep the underlying policy in force, are recorded in other revenues on the consolidated statements of income for the year ended december 31, 2007. amounts presented related to prior years were accounted for under the previous accounting guidance, ftb no. 85-4, where the carrying value of life settlement contracts was the cash surrender value, and revenue was recognized and included in other revenues on the consolidated statements of income when the life insurance policy underlying the life settlement contract matured. under the previous accounting guidance, maintenance expenses were expensed as incurred and included in other operating expenses on the consolidated statements of income. cna's investments in life settlement contracts of $115 million at december 31, 2007 are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. the cash receipts and payments related to life settlement contracts are included in cash flows from operating activities on the consolidated statements of cash flows for all periods presented. the fair value of each life insurance policy is determined as the present value of the anticipated death benefits less anticipated premium payments for that policy. these anticipated values are determined using mortality rates and policy terms that are distinct for each insured. the discount rate used reflects current risk-free rates at applicable durations and the risks associated with assessing the current medical condition of the insured, the potential volatility of mortality experience for the portfolio and longevity risk. cna used its own experience to determine the fair value of its portfolio of life settlement contracts. the mortality experience of this portfolio of life insurance policies may vary by quarter due to its relatively small size. the following table details the values of life settlement contracts as of december 31, 2007. number of life fair value of life face amount of settlement settlement life insurance contracts contracts policies (in millions of dollars) estimated maturity during: 2008 80 $ 16 $ 53 2009 80 14 52 2010 80 13 51 2011 80 11 51 2012 80 10 51 thereafter 1,008 51 490 total 1,408 $ 115 $ 748 cna uses an actuarial model to estimate the aggregate face amount of life insurance that is expected to mature in each future year and the corresponding fair value. this model projects the likelihood of the insured's death for each in force policy based upon cna's estimated mortality rates. the number of life settlement contracts presented in the table above is based upon the average face amount of in force policies estimated to mature in each future year. the increase in fair value recognized for the year ended december 31, 2007 on contracts still being held was $12 million. the gain recognized during the year ended december 31, 2007 on contracts that matured was $38 million. in june of 2006, the fasb issued fasb interpretation ( fin ) no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109. fin no. 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for how a company should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that the company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. fin no. 48 states that a tax benefit from an uncertain position may be recognized only if it is more likely than not that the position is sustainable, based on its technical merits. the tax benefit of a qualifying position is the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. the company adopted fin no. 48 on january 1, 2007 and recorded a decrease to retained earnings of 146 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) approximately $37 million, net of minority interest. see note 11 for additional information on the provision for income taxes. in september of 2006, the fasb issued statement of financial standards ( sfas ) no. 158, employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. sfas no. 158 requires an employer to recognize the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. the company adopted sfas no. 158 in december of 2006. adoption of the pronouncement decreased equity by $143 million as of december 31, 2006. see note 18 for additional information on the company's benefit plans. investments investments in securities are carried as follows: the company classifies its fixed maturity securities (bonds and redeemable preferred stocks) and its equity securities held principally by insurance subsidiaries as either available-for-sale or trading, and as such, they are carried at fair value.changes in fair value of trading securities are reported within net investment income. the amortized cost of fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity, which are included in net investment income. changes in fair value related to available-for-sale securities are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. investments are written down to fair value and losses are recognized in the income statement when a decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary. see note 2 for information related to the company's impairment charges. for asset-backed securities included in fixed maturity securities, the company recognizes income using a constant effective yield based on anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities. when estimates of prepayments change, the effective yield is recalculated to reflect actual payments to date and anticipated future payments. the net investment in the securities is adjusted to the amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied since the acquisition of the securities. such adjustments are reflected in net investment income. interest income on lower rated beneficial interests in securitized financial assets is determined using the prospective yield method. real estate investments are carried at the lower of cost or market value. these items are included in other investments in the consolidated balance sheets. short term investments consist primarily of u.s. government securities, repurchase agreements, money market funds and commercial paper. these investments are generally carried at fair value, which approximates amortized cost. all securities transactions are recorded on the trade date. the cost of securities sold is generally determined by the identified certificate method. the company's carrying value of investments in limited partnerships is its share of the net asset value of each partnership, as determined by the general partner, and typically reflects a reporting lag of up to three months. changes in net asset values are accounted for under the equity method and recorded within net investment income. the majority of the limited partnerships employ strategies to generate returns through investing in a substantial number of securities that are readily marketable. these strategies may include the use of leverage and hedging techniques that potentially introduce more volatility and risk to the partnerships. in accordance with fin no. 46r, consolidation of variable interest entities, an interpretation of arb no. 51, the company consolidated one limited partnership. other investments also include certain derivative securities. investments in derivative securities are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported as a component of investment gains or losses or accumulated other comprehensive income, depending on their hedge designation. changes in the fair value of derivative securities which are not designated as hedges, are reported as a component of investment gains or losses in the consolidated statements of income. a derivative is typically defined as an instrument whose value is derived from an underlying instrument, index or rate, has a notional amount, requires little or no initial investment, and can be net settled. derivatives include, but are not limited to, the following types of investments: interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, put and call options, warrants, futures, forwards, commitments to purchase securities, credit 147 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) default swaps and combinations of the foregoing. derivatives embedded within non-derivative instruments (such as call options embedded in convertible bonds) must be split from the host instrument when the embedded derivative is not clearly and closely related to the host instrument. the company's derivatives are reported as other invested assets or other liabilities. embedded derivative instruments subject to bifurcation are reported together with the host contract, at fair value. if certain criteria are met, a derivative may be specifically designated as a hedge of exposures to changes in fair value, cash flows or foreign currency exchange rates. the accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative, the nature of any hedge designation thereon and whether the derivative was transacted in a designated trading portfolio. the company's accounting for changes in the fair value of derivative instruments is as follows: nature of hedge designation derivative's change in fair value reflected in no hedge designation investment gains (losses). fair value investment gains (losses), along with the change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk. cash flow accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), with subsequent reclassification to earnings when the hedged transaction, asset or liability impacts earnings. foreign currency consistent with fair value or cash flow above, depending on the nature of the hedging relationship. the company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. the company also formally assesses (both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing basis) whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items and whether those derivatives may be expected to remain highly effective in future periods. when it is determined that a derivative for which hedge accounting has been designated is not (or ceases to be) highly effective, the company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively. the company and certain of its subsidiaries periodically enter into derivative contracts to manage exposure to commodity price risk. a significant portion of the company's hedge strategies represents cash flow hedges of the variable price risk associated with the purchase and sale of natural gas and other energy-related products. the company also uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to variable interest rates on long term debt. any ineffectiveness is recorded currently in the consolidated statements of income. derivatives held in designated trading portfolios are carried at fair value with changes therein reflected in investment income. these derivatives are generally not designated as hedges. securities lending and repurchase activities the company lends securities to unrelated parties, primarily major brokerage firms. borrowers of these securities must deposit collateral with the company of at least 102% of the fair value of the securities loaned if the collateral is cash or securities. the company maintains effective control over all loaned securities and, therefore, continues to report such securities as fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheets. cash collateral received on these transactions is invested in short term investments with an offsetting liability recognized for the obligation to return the collateral. non-cash collateral, such as securities received by the company, is not reflected as assets of the company as there exists no right to sell or re-pledge the collateral. the fair value of collateral held and included in short term investments was $63 million and $3,602 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006. the fair value of non-cash collateral was $273 million and $385 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006. 148 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) gain on issuance of subsidiary stock securities and exchange commission ( sec ) staff accounting bulletin topic 5-h, accounting for sales of stock by a subsidiary ( sab no. 51 ), provides guidance on accounting for the effect of issuances of a subsidiary's stock on the parent's investment in that subsidiary. sab no. 51 allows registrants to elect an accounting policy of recording such increases or decreases in a parent's investment (sab no. 51 gains or losses, respectively) either in income or in shareholders' equity. in accordance with the election provided in sab no. 51, the company's policy is to record such sab no. 51 gains or losses directly to the income statement. revenue recognition insurance premiums on property and casualty and accident and health insurance contracts are recognized in proportion to the underlying risk insured which principally are earned ratably over the duration of the policies after deductions for ceded insurance premiums. the reserve for unearned premiums on these contracts represents the portion of premiums written relating to the unexpired terms of coverage. an estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due currently or in the future from insureds, including amounts due from insureds related to losses under high deductible policies, management's experience and current economic conditions. property and casualty contracts that are retrospectively rated contain provisions that result in an adjustment to the initial policy premium depending on the contract provisions and loss experience of the insured during the experience period. for such contracts, cna estimates the amount of ultimate premiums that cna may earn upon completion of the experience period and recognizes either an asset or a liability for the difference between the initial policy premium and the estimated ultimate premium. cna adjusts such estimated ultimate premium amounts during the course of the experience period based on actual results to date. the resulting adjustment is recorded as either a reduction of or an increase to the earned premiums for the period. revenue from cigarette sales is recognized upon shipment of goods, when title and risk of loss passes to customers and collectability is reasonably assured. contract drilling revenue from dayrate drilling contracts is recognized as services are performed. in connection with such drilling contracts, diamond offshore may receive fees (either lump-sum or dayrate) for the mobilization of equipment. these fees are earned as services are performed over the initial term of the related drilling contracts. absent a contract, mobilization costs are recognized currently. from time to time, diamond offshore may receive fees from its customers for capital improvements to their rigs. diamond offshore defers such fees received and recognizes these fees into revenue on a straight-line basis over the period of the related drilling contract. diamond offshore capitalizes the costs of such capital improvements and depreciates them over the estimated useful life of the improvement. natural gas and natural gas liquids ( ngls ) production revenue is recognized based on actual volumes of natural gas and ngls sold to purchasers. sales require delivery of the product to the purchaser, passage of title and probability of collection of purchaser amounts owed. natural gas and ngl production revenue includes sales of natural gas and ngls by highmount. natural gas and ngl production revenue is reported net of royalties. highmount uses the sales method of accounting for gas imbalances. an imbalance is created when the volumes of gas sold by highmount pertaining to a property do not equate to the volumes produced to which highmount is entitled based on its interest in the property. an asset or liability is recognized to the extent that highmount has an imbalance in excess of the remaining reserves on the underlying properties. revenues from the transportation of natural gas are recognized in the period the service is provided based on contractual terms and the related transported volumes. revenues from storage services are recognized over the term of the contract. texas gas transmission, llc ( texas gas ), a wholly owned subsidiary of boardwalk pipeline, is subject to federal energy regulatory commission ( ferc ) regulations and, accordingly, certain revenues collected may be subject to possible refunds upon final orders in pending cases. an estimated refund liability is recorded considering regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and estimated total exposure. insurance operations claim and claim adjustment expense reserves claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, except reserves for structured settlements not associated with asbestos and environmental pollution ( a&amp;e ), workers' compensation 149 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) lifetime claims, accident and health claims and certain claims associated with discontinued operations, are not discounted and are based on 1) case basis estimates for losses reported on direct business, adjusted in the aggregate for ultimate loss expectations; 2) estimates of incurred but not reported losses; 3) estimates of losses on assumed reinsurance; 4) estimates of future expenses to be incurred in the settlement of claims; 5) estimates of salvage and subrogation recoveries and 6) estimates of amounts due from insureds related to losses under high deductible policies. management considers current conditions and trends as well as past cna and industry experience in establishing these estimates. the effects of inflation, which can be significant, are implicitly considered in the reserving process and are part of the recorded reserve balance. ceded claim and claim adjustment expense reserves are reported as a component of receivables in the consolidated balance sheets. see note 23 for further information on claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for discontinued operations. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves are presented net of anticipated amounts due from insureds related to losses under high deductible policies of $2.2 billion and $2.5 billion as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. a significant portion of these amounts is supported by collateral. cna also has an allowance for uncollectible deductible amounts, which is presented as a component of the allowance for doubtful accounts included in receivables on the consolidated balance sheets. see note 7. structured settlements have been negotiated for certain property and casualty insurance claims. structured settlements are agreements to provide fixed periodic payments to claimants. certain structured settlements are funded by annuities purchased from continental assurance company ( cac ) for which the related annuity obligations are reported in future policy benefits reserves. obligations for structured settlements not funded by annuities are included in claim and claim adjustment expense reserves and carried at present values determined using interest rates ranging from 4.6% to 7.5% at december 31, 2007 and 2006. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the discounted reserves for unfunded structured settlements were $786 million and $814 million, net of discount of $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion. workers' compensation lifetime claim reserves are calculated using mortality assumptions determined through statutory regulation and economic factors. accident and health claim reserves are calculated using mortality and morbidity assumptions based on cna and industry experience. workers' compensation lifetime claim reserves and accident and health claim reserves are discounted at interest rates that range from 3.0% to 6.5% at december 31, 2007 and 2006. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, such discounted reserves totaled $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, net of discount of $438 million and $416 million. future policy benefits reserves reserves for long term care products are computed using the net level premium method, which incorporates actuarial assumptions as to interest rates, mortality, morbidity, persistency, withdrawals and expenses. actuarial assumptions generally vary by plan, age at issue and policy duration, and include a margin for adverse deviation. interest rates range from 6.0% to 8.6% at december 31, 2007 and 2006, and mortality, morbidity and withdrawal assumptions are based on cna and industry experience prevailing at the time of issue. expense assumptions include the estimated effects of inflation and expenses to be incurred beyond the premium paying period. policyholders' funds reserves policyholders' funds reserves primarily include reserves for investment contracts without life contingencies. for these contracts, policyholder liabilities are equal to the accumulated policy account values, which consist of an accumulation of deposit payments plus credited interest, less withdrawals and amounts assessed through the end of the period. guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments liabilities for guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments are accrued when an assessment is probable, when it can be reasonably estimated, and when the event obligating the entity to pay an imposed or probable assessment has occurred. liabilities for guaranty funds and other insurance-related assessments are not discounted and are included as part of other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the liability balances were $178 million and $189 million. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, included in other assets were $6 million and $7 million of related assets for premium tax offsets. the related asset is limited to the amount that is able to be assessed on future premium collections from business written or committed to be written. 150 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) reinsurance amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves and are reported as receivables in the consolidated balance sheets. the cost of reinsurance is primarily accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured policies using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the underlying policies or over the reinsurance contract period. the ceding of insurance does not discharge the primary liability of cna. an estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due from reinsurers, reinsurer solvency, management's experience and current economic conditions. the expenses incurred related to uncollectible reinsurance receivables are presented as a component of insurance claims and policyholders' benefits in the consolidated statements of income. reinsurance contracts that do not effectively transfer the underlying economic risk of loss on policies written by cna are recorded using the deposit method of accounting, which requires that premium paid or received by the ceding company or assuming company be accounted for as a deposit asset or liability. at december 31, 2007, cna had $40 million recorded as deposit assets and $117 million recorded as deposit liabilities. income on reinsurance contracts accounted for under the deposit method is recognized using an effective yield based on the anticipated timing of payments and the remaining life of the contract. when the estimate of timing of payments changes, the effective yield is recalculated to reflect actual payments to date and the estimated timing of future payments. the deposit asset or liability is adjusted to the amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied since the inception of the contract. this adjustment is reflected in other revenue or other operating expense as appropriate. participating insurance policyholder dividends are accrued using an estimate of the amount to be paid based on underlying contractual obligations under policies and applicable state laws. when limitations exist on the amount of net income from participating life insurance contracts that may be distributed to shareholders, the share of net income on those policies that cannot be distributed to shareholders is excluded from shareholders' equity by a charge to operations and the establishment of a corresponding liability. deferred acquisition costs acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting and policy issuance costs which vary with and are related primarily to the acquisition of business. such costs related to property and casualty business are deferred and amortized ratably over the period the related premiums are earned. deferred acquisition costs related to accident and health insurance are amortized over the premium-paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used for computing future policy benefits reserves for such contracts. assumptions as to anticipated premiums are made at the date of policy issuance or acquisition and are consistently applied during the lives of the contracts. deviations from estimated experience are included in results of operations when they occur. for these contracts, the amortization period is typically the estimated life of the policy. cna evaluates deferred acquisition costs for recoverability. adjustments, if necessary, are recorded in current results of operations. anticipated investment income is considered in the determination of the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs. deferred acquisition costs are recorded net of ceding commissions and other ceded acquisition costs. unamortized deferred acquisition costs relating to contracts that have been substantially changed by a modification in benefits, features, rights or coverages are no longer deferred and are included as a charge to operations in the period during which the contract modification occurred. separate account business separate account assets and liabilities represent contract holder funds related to investment and annuity products, which are segregated into accounts with specific underlying investment objectives. the assets and liabilities of these contracts are legally segregated and reported as assets and liabilities of the separate account business. substantially all assets of the separate account business are carried at fair value. separate account liabilities are primarily carried at contract values. fee income accruing to cna related to separate accounts is primarily included within other revenue on the consolidated statements of income. tobacco product inventories these inventories, aggregating $224 million and $183 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are stated at the lower of cost or market, using the last-in, first-out (lifo) method and primarily consist of leaf tobacco and are included in other assets. if the average cost method of accounting had been 151 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) used for tobacco inventories instead of the lifo method, such inventories would have been $151 million and $156 million higher at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. goodwill and other intangible assets goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are annually tested for impairment. goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair value of net assets of acquired entities. impairment losses, if any, are included in the consolidated statements of income. property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. depreciation is computed principally by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various classes of properties. leaseholds and leasehold improvements are depreciated or amortized over the terms of the related leases (including optional renewal periods where appropriate) or the estimated lives of improvements, if less than the lease term. the principal service lives used in computing provisions for depreciation are as follows: years buildings and building equipment 30 to 40 leaseholds and leasehold improvements 10 to 20 offshore drilling equipment 15 to 30 pipeline equipment 30 to 50 machinery and equipment 4 to 30 computer equipment and software 3 to 5 highmount follows the full cost method of accounting for natural gas and ngl exploration and production activities prescribed by the sec. under the full cost method, all direct costs of property acquisition, exploration and development activities are capitalized. these capitalized costs are subject to a quarterly ceiling test. under the ceiling test, amounts capitalized are limited to the present value of estimated future net revenues to be derived from the anticipated production of proved natural gas and ngl reserves, assuming period-end pricing adjusted for cash flow hedges in place. if net capitalized costs exceed the ceiling test at the end of any quarterly period, then a permanent write-down of the assets must be recognized in that period. a write-down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas and ngl prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. approximately 2.7% (unaudited) of highmount's total proved reserves is hedged by qualifying cash flow hedges, for which hedge adjusted prices were used to calculate estimated future net revenue. whether period-end market prices or hedge adjusted prices were used for the portion of production that is hedged, there was no ceiling test impairment as of december 31, 2007. future cash flows associated with settling asset retirement obligations that have been accrued in the consolidated balance sheets pursuant to sfas no. 143, accounting for asset retirement obligations, are excluded from highmount's calculations of discounted cash flows under the full cost ceiling test. depletion of natural gas and ngl producing properties is computed using the units-of-production method. under the full cost method, the depletable base of costs subject to depletion also includes estimated future costs to be incurred in developing proved natural gas and ngl reserves, as well as capitalized asset retirement costs, net of projected salvage values. the costs of investments in unproved properties including associated exploration-related costs are initially excluded from the depletable base. until the properties are evaluated, a ratable portion of the capitalized costs is periodically reclassified to the depletable base, determined on a property by property basis, over terms of underlying leases. once a property has been evaluated, any remaining capitalized costs are then transferred to the depletable base. in addition, gains or losses on the sale or other disposition of natural gas and ngl properties are not recognized, unless the gain or loss would significantly alter the relationship between capitalized costs and proved reserves. impairment of long-lived assets the company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. long-lived assets and intangibles with finite lives, under certain circumstances, are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value. assets to be disposed of and assets not expected to provide any future service potential to the company are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. 152 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) pension and postretirement benefits the company recognizes the overfunded or underfunded status of its defined benefit plans as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheets and recognizes changes in that funded status in the year in which the changes occur through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the company measures its benefit plan assets and obligations at december 31 in the consolidated balance sheets. foreign currency foreign currency translation gains and losses are reflected in shareholders' equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the company's foreign subsidiaries' balance sheet accounts are translated at the exchange rates in effect at each year end and income statement accounts are translated at the average exchange rates. foreign currency transaction losses of $6 million, $4 million and $15 million (after tax and minority interest) were included in determining net income for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. stock option plans in december of 2004, the fasb issued a complete replacement of sfas no. 123, share-based payment ( sfas no. 123r ), which covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements, including share options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. effective january 1, 2006, the company adopted sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective transition method. the company applied the transition method in calculating its pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb future tax deficiencies as provided by fsp fas 123(r)-3, transition election related to accounting for the tax effects of share-based payment awards. the company recognized compensation expense that decreased net income attributable to loews common stock by $9 million and $7 million, or $0.02 and $0.01 per loews common share, for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively. net income attributable to carolina group stock decreased by approximately $800,000 and $300,000 for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, or $0.01 per carolina group common share in 2007. there was no impact per carolina group share in 2006. several of the company's subsidiaries also maintain their own stock option plans. the amounts reported above include the company's share of expense related to its subsidiaries' plans as well. prior to the adoption of sfas no. 123r, the company elected to follow accounting principles board opinion ( apb ) no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees and related interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options and awards. under apb no. 25, no compensation expense was recognized when the exercise prices of options equaled the fair value (market price) of the underlying stock on the date of grant. these amounts were not included in the company's consolidated statements of income, in accordance with apb no. 25. the pro forma effect of applying sfas no. 123 included the company's share of expense related to its subsidiaries' plans as well. the company's pro forma net income and the related basic and diluted income per loews common share would have been as follows: year ended december 31 2005 (in millions, except per share data) net income: loews common stock: net income as reported $ 961 deduct: total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value based method, net (6 ) pro forma net income $ 955 basic and diluted net income per share: loews common stock: as reported $ 1.72 pro forma 1.71 there was no impact to the pro forma net income per carolina group share. 153 notes to consolidated financial statements note 1. summary of significant accounting policies (continued) regulatory accounting the ferc regulates the operations of texas gas. sfas no. 71, accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation, requires texas gas to report assets and liabilities consistent with the economic effect of the manner in which independent third party regulators establish rates. accordingly, certain costs and benefits are capitalized as regulatory assets and liabilities in order to provide for recovery from or refund to customers in future periods. supplementary cash flow information cash payments made for interest on long term debt, net of capitalized interest, amounted to approximately $299 million, $352 million and $405 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. cash payments for federal, foreign, state and local income taxes amounted to approximately $1,572 million, $1,160 million and $504 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. accrued capital expenditures amounted to approximately $215 million, $30 million and $55 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted in september of 2006, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 157, fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 provides enhanced guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. the standard also responds to investors' requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. sfas no. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. a one year deferral has been granted for the implementation of sfas no. 157 for other nonfinancial assets and liabilities. the adoption of sfas no. 157 is not expected to have a material impact on the company's results of operations and equity. in february of 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities. sfas no. 159 provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. the objective of sfas no. 159 is to reduce both complexity in accounting for financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently. generally accepted accounting principles have required different measurement attributes for different assets and liabilities that can create artificial volatility in earnings. sfas no. 159 helps to mitigate volatility by enabling companies to report related assets and liabilities at fair value, which would likely reduce the need for companies to comply with detailed rules for hedge accounting. sfas no. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after november 15, 2007. the adoption of sfas no. 159 is not expected to have a material impact on the company's results of operations and equity. in december of 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. this standard will improve, simplify, and converge internationally the reporting of noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. sfas no. 160 requires all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries in the same way - as equity in the consolidated financial statements. moreover, sfas no. 160 requires that transactions between an entity and noncontrolling interests be treated as equity transactions. sfas no. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. as a result, after january 1, 2009, the company's deferred gains related to the issuances of boardwalk pipeline common units ($472 million at december 31, 2007), as discussed in note 14, will be recognized in the shareholders' equity section of the consolidated balance sheets as opposed to the consolidated statements of income. reclassifications certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the classifications followed in 2007. 154 notes to consolidated financial statements note 2. investments year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) net investment income consisted of: fixed maturity securities $ 2,047 $ 1,861 $ 1,644 short term investments 360 373 191 limited partnerships 217 314 271 equity securities 25 29 30 income from trading portfolio 207 326 90 interest on funds withheld and other deposits (1 ) (68 ) (166 ) other 89 121 90 total investment income 2,944 2,956 2,150 investment expenses (53 ) (46 ) (52 ) net investment income $ 2,891 $ 2,910 $ 2,098 investment gains (losses) are as follows: fixed maturities $ (478 ) $ 1 $ (99 ) equity securities, including short positions 117 22 43 derivative instruments 64 19 49 short term investments 12 (6 ) (3 ) other, including guaranteed separate account business 12 56 (3 ) investment gains (losses) (273 ) 92 (13 ) gains on issuance of subsidiary stock 141 9 (132 ) 101 (13 ) income tax (expense) benefit 45 (23 ) 1 minority interest 22 (9 ) 1 investment gains (losses), net $ (65 ) $ 69 $ (11 ) realized investment losses included $741 million, $173 million and $107 million of other-than-temporary impairment ( otti ) losses for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. the 2007 otti losses were recorded primarily in the asset-backed bonds and corporate and other taxable bonds sectors. the 2006 and 2005 otti losses were recorded across various sectors. the increase in otti losses for 2007 was primarily driven by credit issue related otti losses on securities for which the company did not assert an intent to hold until an anticipated recovery in value. these otti losses were driven mainly by credit market conditions and the continued disruption caused by issues surrounding the sub-prime residential mortgage ( sub-prime ) crisis. the increase in otti losses for 2006 was primarily driven by an increase in interest rate related otti losses on securities for which the company did not assert an intent to hold until an anticipated recovery in value. the 2005 otti losses included $47 million related to loans made under a credit facility to a national contractor, that were classified as fixed maturity securities. see note 22 for additional information on loans to the national contractor. the investment policies emphasize high credit quality and diversification by industry, issuer and issue. assets supporting interest rate sensitive liabilities are segmented within the general account to facilitate asset/liability duration management. 155 notes to consolidated financial statements note 2. investments (continued) the amortized cost and market values of securities are as follows: gross unrealized losses estimated amortized unrealized less than greater than fair december 31, 2007 cost gains 12 months 12 months value (in millions) fixed maturity securities: u.s. government and obligations of government agencies $ 594 $ 93 $ 687 asset-backed securities 11,777 39 $ 223 $ 183 11,410 states, municipalities and political subdivisions-tax exempt 7,615 144 82 2 7,675 corporate 8,867 246 149 12 8,952 other debt 4,143 208 48 4 4,299 redeemable preferred stocks 1,216 2 160 1,058 fixed maturities available-for-sale 34,212 732 662 201 34,081 fixed maturities, trading 604 6 19 9 582 total fixed maturities 34,816 738 681 210 34,663 equity securities: equity securities available-for-sale 366 214 12 568 equity securities, trading 777 99 69 28 779 total equity securities 1,143 313 81 28 1,347 short term investments: short term investments available-for- sale 6,841 3 1 6,843 short term investments, trading 2,628 2,628 total short term investments 9,469 3 1 - 9,471 total $ 45,428 $ 1,054 $ 763 $ 238 $ 45,481 december 31, 2006 fixed maturity securities: u.s. government and obligations of government agencies $ 5,055 $ 86 $ 2 $ 1 $ 5,138 asset-backed securities 13,823 28 21 151 13,679 states, municipalities and political subdivisions-tax exempt 4,915 237 1 5 5,146 corporate 6,811 338 7 11 7,131 other debt 3,443 207 7 1 3,642 redeemable preferred stocks 885 28 1 912 fixed maturities available-for-sale 34,932 924 39 169 35,648 fixed maturities trading 1,921 6 5 1,922 total fixed maturities 36,853 930 44 169 37,570 equity securities: equity securities available-for-sale 348 249 597 equity securities, trading 619 112 11 8 712 total equity securities 967 361 11 8 1,309 short term investments: short term investments available-for- sale 8,418 8,418 short term investments, trading 4,385 4,385 total short term investments 12,803 - - - 12,803 total $ 50,623 $ 1,291 $ 55 $ 177 $ 51,682 156 notes to consolidated financial statements note 2. investments (continued) the following table summarizes, for available-for-sale fixed maturity and equity securities in an unrealized loss position at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the aggregate fair value and gross unrealized loss by length of time those securities have been continuously in an unrealized loss position. december 31 2007 2006 gross gross estimated unrealized estimated unrealized fair value loss fair value loss (in millions) available-for-sale fixed maturity securities: investment grade: 0-6 months $ 5,578 $ 357 $ 9,829 $ 24 7-12 months 1,689 221 1,267 12 13-24 months 690 57 5,248 127 greater than 24 months 3,869 138 1,022 41 total investment grade available-for-sale 11,826 773 17,366 204 non-investment grade: 0-6 months 1,549 76 509 2 7-12 months 125 8 87 1 13-24 months 26 4 24 1 greater than 24 months 8 2 2 total non-investment grade available-for-sale 1,708 90 622 4 total fixed maturity securities available-for-sale 13,534 863 17,988 208 available-for-sale equity securities: 0-6 months 98 12 10 7-12 months 1 1 13-24 months greater than 24 months 3 3 total available-for-sale equity securities 102 12 14 - total available-for-sale fixed maturity and equity securities $ 13,636 $ 875 $ 18,002 $ 208 an investment is impaired if the fair value of the investment is less than its cost adjusted for accretion, amortization, previous otti and hedging, otherwise defined as an unrealized loss. when an investment is impaired, the impairment is evaluated to determine whether it is temporary or other-than-temporary. significant judgment is required in the determination of whether an otti has occurred for an investment. cna follows a consistent and systematic process for determining and recording an otti. cna has established a committee responsible for the otti process. this committee, referred to as the impairment committee, is made up of three officers appointed by cna's chief financial officer. the impairment committee is responsible for analyzing all securities in an unrealized loss position ( watch list ) on at least a quarterly basis. all watch list securities are monitored for further market value changes and additional information related to the issuer's financial condition. the focus is on objective evidence that may influence the evaluation of otti factors. the decision to record an otti incorporates both quantitative criteria and qualitative information. the impairment committee considers a number of factors including, but not limited to: (a) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost, (b) the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, (c) the intent and ability of cna to retain its investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value, (d) whether the debtor is current on interest and principal payments and (e) general market conditions and industry or sector specific factors. 157 notes to consolidated financial statements note 2. investments (continued) the committee also considers results and analysis of cash flow modeling to supplement its review of various asset-backed securities. the focus of this analysis is on assessing the sufficiency and quality of the underlying collateral and timing of cash flow based on various scenario tests. this additional data provides the committee with additional context to evaluate current market conditions to determine if the impairment is temporary in nature. the impairment committee's decision to record an otti loss is primarily based on whether the security's fair value is likely to recover to its amortized cost in light of all of the factors considered over the expected holding period. for securities considered to be otti, the security is adjusted to fair value and the resulting losses are recognized in realized investment gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of income. recording an otti loss on a security does not always reflect cna's view on whether an equity security will recover to cost or if a fixed maturity security will make timely repayment of principal and interest. at december 31, 2007, the fair value of the available-for-sale fixed maturities was $34,081 million, representing 71% of the total investment portfolio. the unrealized position associated with the available-for-sale fixed maturity portfolio included $863 million in gross unrealized losses, consisting of asset-backed securities which represented 47.0%, corporate bonds which represented 18.7%, redeemable preferred stock which represented 18.5%, and all other fixed maturity securities which represented 15.8%. the gross unrealized loss for any single issuer was no greater than 0.2% of the carrying value of the total fixed maturity portfolio. the total available-for-sale fixed maturity portfolio gross unrealized losses included 1,380 securities which were, in aggregate, approximately 6.0% below amortized cost. the gross unrealized losses on equity securities were $12 million, including 245 securities which were, in aggregate, approximately 11.0% below cost. given the current facts and circumstances, the impairment committee has determined that the securities presented in the above unrealized gain/loss tables were temporarily impaired when evaluated at december 31, 2007 or december 31, 2006, and therefore no related realized losses were recorded. a discussion of some of the factors reviewed in making that determination as of december 31, 2007 is presented below. asset-backed securities the unrealized losses on the company's investments in asset-backed securities were caused by a combination of factors during 2007 related to the market disruption caused by credit concerns surrounding the sub-prime issue, but also extended into other asset-backed securities in the market and specifically in the company's portfolio. the majority of the holdings in this category are collateralized mortgage obligations ( cmos ) typically collateralized with prime residential mortgages and corporate asset-backed structured securities. the holdings in these sectors include 482 securities in a gross unrealized loss position of $402 million. of these securities in a gross unrealized loss position, 43.0% are rated aaa, 22.0% are rated aa, 32.0% are rated a and 3.0% are rated bbb or lower. the aggregate severity of the unrealized loss was approximately 6.0% of amortized cost. the contractual cash flows on the asset-backed structured securities are passed-through but may be structured into classes of preference. the structured securities held are generally secured by over collateralization or default protection provided by subordinated tranches. within this category, securities subject to emerging issues task force ( eitf ) issue no. 99-20, recognition of interest income and impairment on purchased and retained beneficial interests in securitized financial assets, are monitored for significant adverse changes in cash flow projections. if there are adverse changes in cash flows, the amount of accretable yield is prospectively adjusted and an otti loss is recognized. as of december 31, 2007, there was no adverse change in estimated cash flows noted for the securities in an unrealized loss position held subject to eitf no. 99-20, which have a gross unrealized loss of $118 million and an aggregate severity of the unrealized loss of approximately 22.0% of amortized cost. for the year ended december 31, 2007, there were otti losses of $311 million recorded on asset-backed securities, $209 million of which were related to eitf 99-20 securities. the remainder of the holdings in this category includes mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by an agency of the u.s. government. there were 235 agency mortgage-backed pass-through securities and 3 agency cmos in an unrealized loss position of $4 million as of december 31, 2007. the aggregate severity of the unrealized losses on 158 notes to consolidated financial statements note 2. investments (continued) these securities was approximately 3.0% of amortized cost. these securities do not tend to be influenced by the credit of the issuer but rather the characteristics and projected cash flows of the underlying collateral. the company believes the decline in fair value was primarily attributable to the market disruption caused by sub-prime related issues and other temporary market conditions. because the company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until an anticipated recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the company considers these investments to be temporarily impaired at december 31, 2007. states, municipalities and political subdivisions tax-exempt securities the unrealized losses on the company's investments in municipal securities were caused primarily by changes in credit spreads, and to a lesser extent, changes in interest rates. the company invests in tax-exempt municipal securities as an asset class for economic benefits of the returns on the class compared to like after tax returns on alternative classes. the holdings in this category include 223 securities in a gross unrealized loss position of $84 million with 100% of these unrealized losses related to investment grade securities (rated bbb- or higher) where the cash flows are secured by the credit of the issuer. the aggregate severity of the unrealized losses were approximately 4.0% of amortized cost. because the company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until an anticipated recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the company considers these investments to be temporarily impaired at december 31, 2007. corporate bonds the company's portfolio management objective for corporate bonds focuses on sector and issuer exposures and value analysis within sectors. in order to maximize investment objectives, corporate bonds are analyzed on a risk adjusted basis compared to other opportunities that are available in the market. trading decisions may be made based on an issuer that may be overvalued in the company's portfolio compared to a like issuer that may be undervalued in the market. the company also monitors issuer exposure and broader industry sector exposures and may reduce exposures based on its current view of a specific issuer or sector. the holdings in this category include 312 securities in a gross unrealized loss position of $161 million. of the unrealized losses in this category, over 49.0% relate to securities rated as investment grade. the total holdings in this category are diversified across 11 industry sectors. the aggregate severity of the unrealized losses were approximately 5.0% of amortized cost. within corporate bonds, the largest industry sectors were financial, consumer cyclical and communications which as a percentage of total gross unrealized losses were approximately 30.0%, 22.0% and 15.0% at december 31, 2007. the decline in fair value was primarily attributable to deterioration in the broader credit markets that resulted in widening of credit spreads over risk free rates and macro conditions in certain sectors that the market viewed as out of favor. because the decline was not related to specific credit quality issues, and because the company has the ability and intent to hold those investments until an anticipated recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the company considers these investments to be temporarily impaired at december 31, 2007. for the year ended december 31, 2007, there were otti losses of $209 million recorded on corporate bonds. redeemable preferred stock the unrealized losses on the company's investments in redeemable preferred stock were caused by similar factors as those that affected the company's corporate bond portfolio. the holdings in this category have been adversely impacted by significant credit spread widening brought on by a combination of factors in the capital markets. many of the securities in this category have fallen out of favor in the current market conditions. approximately 58.0% of the gross unrealized losses in this category come from securities issued by diversified financial institutions, 31.0% from losses on government agency issued securities and 4.0% from utilities. the holdings in this category include 41 securities in a gross unrealized loss position of $160 million. of these securities in a gross unrealized loss position, 31.0% are rated aa, 55.0% are rated a, 12.0% are rated bbb and 2.0% are rated less than bbb. the company believes the decline in fair value was primarily due to the market disruption caused by the sub-prime related issues and other temporary market conditions. because the company has the ability and intent to hold these investments until an anticipated recovery of fair value, which may be maturity, the company considers these investments to be temporarily impaired at december 31, 2007. 159 notes to consolidated financial statements note 2. investments (continued) contractual maturity the following tables summarize available-for-sale fixed maturity securities by contractual maturity at december 31, 2007 and 2006. actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain securities may be called or prepaid with or without call or prepayment penalties. securities not due at a single date are allocated based on weighted average life. december 31 2007 2006 amortized estimated amortized estimated cost fair value cost fair value (in millions) due in one year or less $ 2,685 $ 2,678 $ 1,599 $ 1,601 due after one year through five years 12,219 12,002 13,023 13,039 due after five years through ten years 6,150 6,052 9,555 9,619 due after ten years 13,158 13,349 10,755 11,389 total $ 34,212 $ 34,081 $ 34,932 $ 35,648 as of december 31, 2007, the company did not hold any non-income producing fixed maturity securities. as of december 31, 2006, the carrying value of fixed maturity investments that did not produce income was $10 million. as of december 31, 2007, no investments exceeded 10.0% of shareholders' equity. as of december 31, 2006, no investments, other than investments in u.s. treasury and u.s. government agency securities, exceeded 10.0% of shareholders' equity. investment commitments the company's investments in limited partnerships contain withdrawal provisions that typically require advanced written notice of up to 90 days for withdrawals. the carrying value of these investments, reported as a separate line item in the consolidated balance sheets, were $2,370 million and $2,161 million as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company had committed approximately $461 million and $109 million to future capital calls from various third party limited partnership investments in exchange for an ownership interest in the related partnerships. the company invests in multiple bank loan participations as part of its overall investment strategy and has committed to additional future purchases and sales. the purchase and sale of these investments are recorded on the date that the legal agreements are finalized and cash settlement is made. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company had commitments to purchase $58 million and $64 million and sell $3 million and $24 million of various bank loan participations. when loan participation purchases are settled and recorded they may contain both funded and unfunded amounts. an unfunded loan represents an obligation by the company to provide additional amounts under the terms of the loan participation. the funded portions are reflected on the consolidated balance sheets, while any unfunded amounts are not recorded until a draw is made under the loan facility. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the company had obligations on unfunded bank loan participations in the amount of $23 million and $29 million. 160 notes to consolidated financial statements note 2. investments (continued) investments on deposit cna may from time to time invest in securities that may be restricted in whole or in part. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, cna did not hold any significant positions in investments whose sale was restricted. cash and securities with carrying values of approximately $2.5 billion were deposited by cna's insurance subsidiaries under requirements of regulatory authorities as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. cash and securities with carrying values of approximately $8 million and $11 million were deposited with financial institutions as collateral for letters of credit as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. in addition, cash and securities were deposited in trusts with financial institutions to secure reinsurance obligations with various third parties. the carrying values of these deposits were approximately $323 million and $327 million as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. note 3. fair value of financial instruments december 31 2007 2006 carrying estimated carrying estimated amount fair value amount fair value (in millions) financial assets: other investments $ 46 $ 46 $ 12 $ 12 separate account business: fixed maturities securities 419 419 434 434 equity securities 45 45 41 41 financial liabilities: premium deposits and annuity contracts 826 826 898 899 short term debt 358 358 4 4 long term debt 6,900 6,846 5,568 5,439 separate account business 472 472 500 500 in cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using present value or other valuation techniques. these techniques are significantly affected by management's assumptions, including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows. the amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for fixed maturity securities, equity securities, derivative instruments, short term investments and collateral on loaned securities and derivatives and certain other assets and liabilities are at fair value. as such, these financial instruments are not shown in the table above. see note 4 for the fair value of derivative instruments. since the disclosure excludes certain financial instruments and non-financial instruments such as real estate, deferred acquisition costs and insurance reserves, the aggregate fair value amounts cannot be summed to determine the underlying economic value of the company. the following methods and assumptions were used by the company in estimating its fair value disclosures for financial instruments: the fair values of fixed maturity securities, equity securities and other invested assets were based on quoted market prices, where available. for securities not actively traded, fair values were estimated using values obtained from independent pricing services or quoted market prices of comparable instruments rates and estimates of future cash flows. other investments consist of mortgage loans and notes receivable, policy loans and various miscellaneous assets. valuation techniques to determine fair value of other investments and other separate account assets consisted of discounting cash flows, obtaining quoted market prices of the investments and comparing the investments to similar instruments or to the comparable underlying assets of the investments. 161 notes to consolidated financial statements note 3. fair value of financial instruments (continued) premium deposits and annuity contracts were valued based on cash surrender values, estimated fair values or policyholder liabilities, net of amounts ceded related to sold businesses. fair value of debt was based on quoted market prices when available. when quoted market prices were not available, the fair value for debt was based on quoted market prices of comparable instruments adjusted for differences between the quoted instruments and the instruments being valued or is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, based on current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. note 4. derivative financial instruments the company invests in certain derivative instruments for a number of purposes, including: (i) asset and liability management activities, (ii) income enhancements for its portfolio management strategy, and (iii) benefit from anticipated future movements in the underlying markets. if such movements do not occur as anticipated, then significant losses may occur. monitoring procedures include senior management review of daily detailed reports of existing positions and valuation fluctuations to ensure that open positions are consistent with the company's portfolio strategy. the company does not believe that any of the derivative instruments utilized by it are unusually complex, nor do these instruments contain embedded leverage features which would expose the company to a higher degree of risk. cna uses derivatives in the normal course of business, primarily in an attempt to reduce its exposure to market risk (principally interest rate risk, equity stock price risk and foreign currency risk) stemming from various assets and liabilities and credit risk (the ability of an obligor to make timely payment of principal and/or interest). cna's principal objective under such risk strategies is to achieve the desired reduction in economic risk, even if the position will not receive hedge accounting treatment. cna's use of derivatives is limited by statutes and regulations promulgated by the various regulatory bodies to which it is subject, and by its own derivative policy. the derivative policy limits the authorization to initiate derivative transactions to certain personnel. derivatives entered into for hedging, regardless of the choice to designate hedge accounting, shall have a maturity that effectively correlates to the underlying hedged asset or liability. the policy prohibits the use of derivatives containing greater than one-to-one leverage with respect to changes in the underlying price, rate or index. the policy also prohibits the use of borrowed funds, including funds obtained through securities lending, to engage in derivative transactions. credit exposure associated with non-performance by the counterparties to derivative instruments is generally limited to the uncollateralized fair value of the asset related to the instruments recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. the company attempts to mitigate the risk of non-performance by monitoring the creditworthiness of counterparties and diversifying derivatives to multiple counterparties. the company generally requires that all over-the-counter derivative contracts be governed by an international swaps and derivatives association ( isda ) master agreement, and exchanges collateral under the terms of these arrangements with its derivative investment counterparties depending on the amount of the exposure and the credit rating of the counterparty. the company has exposure to economic losses due to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. the company attempts to mitigate its exposure to interest rate risk through portfolio management, which includes rebalancing its existing portfolios of assets and liabilities, as well as changing the characteristics of investments to be purchased or sold in the future. in addition, various derivative financial instruments are used to modify the interest rate risk exposures of certain assets and liabilities. these strategies include the use of interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, options, futures, forwards and commitments to purchase securities. these instruments are generally used to lock interest rates or market values, to shorten or lengthen durations of fixed maturity securities or investment contracts, or to hedge (on an economic basis) interest rate risks associated with investments and variable rate debt. the company has used these types of instruments as designated hedges against specific assets or liabilities on an infrequent basis. 162 notes to consolidated financial statements note 4. derivative financial instruments (continued) the company is exposed to equity price risk as a result of its investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices, which affect the value of equity securities, or instruments that derive their value from such securities. the company attempts to mitigate its exposure to such risks by limiting its investment in any one security or index. the company may also manage this risk by utilizing instruments such as options, swaps, futures and collars to protect appreciation in securities held. cna uses derivatives in one of its separate accounts to mitigate equity price risk associated with its indexed group annuity contracts by purchasing standard &amp; poor's 500 index ( s&amp;p 500 ) futures contracts in a notional amount equal to the contract holder liability. the company has exposure to credit risk arising from the uncertainty associated with a financial instrument obligor's ability to make timely principal and/or interest payments. the company attempts to mitigate this risk by limiting credit concentrations, practicing diversification, and frequently monitoring the credit quality of issuers and counterparties. in addition, the company may utilize credit derivatives such as credit default swaps to modify the credit risk inherent in certain investments. credit default swaps involve a transfer of credit risk from one party to another in exchange for periodic payments. the company infrequently designates these types of instruments as hedges against specific assets. foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the fair value of financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency. the company's foreign transactions are primarily denominated in australian dollars, canadian dollars, british pounds, japanese yen and the european monetary unit. the company typically manages this risk via asset/liability matching and through the use of foreign currency futures and forwards. the company has infrequently designated these types of instruments as hedges against specific assets or liabilities. the contractual or notional amounts for derivatives are used to calculate the exchange of contractual payments under the agreements and are not representative of the potential for gain or loss on these instruments. interest rates, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices affect the fair value of derivatives. the fair values generally represent the estimated amounts that the company would expect to receive or pay upon termination of the contracts at the reporting date. dealer quotes are available for substantially all of the company's derivatives. for derivative instruments not actively traded, fair values are estimated using values obtained from independent pricing services, costs to settle or quoted market prices of comparable instruments. the company is required to provide collateral for all exchange-traded futures and options contracts. these margin requirements are determined by the individual exchanges based on the fair value of the open positions and are in the custody of the exchange. collateral may also be required for over-the-counter contracts such as interest rate swaps, credit default swaps and currency forwards per the isda agreements in place. the fair value of collateral provided, consisting primarily of cash, was $84 million at december 31, 2007 and $58 million at december 31, 2006. 163 notes to consolidated financial statements note 4. derivative financial instruments (continued) a summary of the aggregate contractual or notional amounts and estimated fair values related to derivative financial instruments are as follows: december 31 2007 2006 estimated estimated contractual/ fair value contractual/ fair value notional asset notional asset value (liability) value (liability) (in millions) with hedge designation interest rate risk: interest rate swaps $ 1,600 $ (80 ) treasury rate lock 150 (8 ) commodity forwards short 596 11 without hedge designation equity markets: options purchased 174 35 $ 171 $ 26 written 287 (16 ) 236 (13 ) index futures long 682 (4 ) 652 (3 ) short 428 14 equity warrants 4 2 6 3 options embedded in convertible debt securities 3 9 separate accounts options written 1 1 currency forwards long 376 (1 ) 463 (2 ) short 188 3 116 (1 ) interest rate risk: interest rate swaps 1,769 2 4,960 (30 ) futures long 1,242 1,461 short 1,685 1,772 commodities: forwards long 13 forwards short 4 other 57 (1 ) 42 2 total $ 9,259 $ (57 ) $ 9,903 $ (18 ) options embedded in convertible debt securities are classified as fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheets, consistent with the host instruments. 164 notes to consolidated financial statements note 4. derivative financial instruments (continued) a summary of the recognized gains (losses) related to derivative financial instruments are as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) with hedge designation interest rate risk: interest rate swaps $ (1 ) without hedge designation equity markets: options purchased $ 1 $ (16 ) 2 written 12 6 5 index futures long (1 ) 66 24 short 28 (4 ) (1 ) equity warrants 1 options embedded in convertible debt securities 1 (33 ) currency forwards long 45 (2 ) (22 ) short (41 ) (5 ) 12 interest rate risk: commitments to purchase government and municipal securities 1 2 1 interest rate swaps 66 19 37 options on government securities short 1 futures long 4 (3 ) 2 short (47 ) 27 (7 ) commodities: forwards short 32 gold options purchased (1 ) (3 ) written 1 3 other 6 (8 ) total $ 107 $ 83 $ 20 fair value hedges - the company's hedging activities primarily involve hedging risk exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risks on various assets and liabilities. the company periodically enters into interest rate swaps to modify the interest rate exposures of designated invested assets. changes in the fair value of a derivative that are highly effective and that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, along with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset that are attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded as investment gains (losses) in the consolidated statements of income. for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, there was no gain or loss on the ineffective portion of fair value hedges because cna did not designate any derivatives as fair value hedges. for the year ended december 31, 2005, cna recognized a net gain of approximately $300,000, which represents the ineffective portion of all fair value hedges. cash flow hedges a significant portion of the company's hedge strategies represents cash flow hedges of the variable price risk associated with the purchase and sale of natural gas and other energy-related products. the company and certain of its subsidiaries also use interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge its exposure to variable interest rates or risk attributable to changes in interest rates on long term debt. any ineffectiveness is recorded currently in the consolidated statements of income. the effective portion of the hedges is amortized to interest expense over the term of the related notes. the company also enters into short sales as part of its portfolio management strategy. short sales are commitments to sell a financial instrument not owned at the time of sale, usually done in anticipation of a price decline. these sales resulted in proceeds of $91 million and $54 million with fair value liabilities of $84 million and 165 notes to consolidated financial statements note 4. derivative financial instruments (continued) $62 million at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. these positions are marked to market and investment gains or losses are included in the consolidated statements of income. note 5. earnings per share companies with complex capital structures are required to present basic and diluted earnings per share. basic earnings per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net income attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of common shares of each class of common stock outstanding for the period. diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock. certain options were not included in the diluted weighted shares amount due to the exercise price being greater than the average stock price for the respective periods. the number of weighted average shares not included in the diluted computations is as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 loews common stock 352,583 59,744 59,862 carolina group stock 50,684 12,650 13,058 the attribution of income to each class of common stock for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, was as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) loews common stock: consolidated net income $ 2,489 $ 2,491 $ 1,212 less income attributable to carolina group stock 533 416 251 income attributable to loews common stock $ 1,956 $ 2,075 $ 961 carolina group stock: income available to carolina group stock $ 855 $ 760 $ 623 weighted average economic interest of the carolina group 62.4 % 54.8 % 40.3 % income attributable to carolina group stock $ 533 $ 416 $ 251 166 notes to consolidated financial statements note 5. earnings per share (continued) the following is a reconciliation of basic weighted shares outstanding to diluted weighted shares for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) loews common stock: weighted average shares outstanding-basic 534.79 552.68 557.10 stock options and stock appreciation rights 1.21 0.86 0.86 weighted average shares outstanding-diluted 536.00 553.54 557.96 carolina group stock: weighted average shares outstanding-basic 108.43 93.37 69.40 stock options and stock appreciation rights 0.14 0.10 0.09 weighted average shares outstanding-diluted 108.57 93.47 69.49 note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information the issuance of carolina group stock has resulted in a two class common stock structure for the company. carolina group stock, commonly called a tracking stock, is intended to reflect the economic performance of a defined group of assets and liabilities of the company referred to as the carolina group. the principal assets and liabilities attributed to the carolina group are the company's 100% stock ownership interest in lorillard, inc.; notional intergroup debt owed by the carolina group to the loews group ($424 million outstanding at december 31, 2007), bearing interest at the annual rate of 8.0% and, subject to optional prepayment, due december 31, 2021; and any and all liabilities, costs and expenses of the company and lorillard arising out of or related to tobacco or tobacco-related businesses. as of december 31, 2007, the outstanding carolina group stock represents a 62.4% economic interest in the economic performance of the carolina group. the loews group consists of all of the company's assets and liabilities other than the 62.4% economic interest represented by the outstanding carolina group stock, and includes as an asset the notional intergroup debt of the carolina group. holders of the company's common stock and of carolina group stock are shareholders of loews corporation and are subject to the risks related to an equity investment in loews corporation. each outstanding share of carolina group stock has 3/10 of a vote per share. in august of 2006, may of 2006 and november of 2005, the company sold an additional 15 million, 15 million and 10 million shares of carolina group stock for net proceeds of $877 million, $752 million and $415 million, respectively. the company has separated, for financial reporting purposes, the carolina group and loews group. the following schedules present the consolidating condensed financial information for these individual groups. neither group is a separate company or legal entity. rather, each group is intended to reflect a defined set of assets and liabilities. 167 notes to consolidated financial statements note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information (continued) loews and carolina group consolidating condensed balance sheet information adjustments carolina group loews and december 31, 2007 lorillard other consolidated group eliminations total (in millions) assets: investments $ 1,290 $ 101 $ 1,391 $ 46,532 $ 47,923 cash 1 1 2 139 141 receivables 208 208 11,476 $ (7 ) (a) 11,677 property, plant and equipment 207 207 10,218 10,425 deferred income taxes 558 558 441 999 goodwill and other intangible assets 1,353 1,353 other assets 336 336 1,588 1,924 investment in combined attributed net assets of the carolina group 681 (424 ) (a) (257 ) (b) deferred acquisition costs of insurance subsidiaries 1,161 1,161 separate account business 476 476 total assets $ 2,600 $ 102 $ 2,702 $ 74,065 $ (688 ) $ 76,079 liabilities and shareholders' equity: insurance reserves $ 40,221 $ 40,221 payable for securities purchased 544 544 collateral on loaned securities 63 63 short term debt 358 358 long term debt $ 424 $ 424 6,900 $ (424 ) (a) 6,900 reinsurance balances payable 401 401 other liabilities $ 1,587 6 1,593 4,041 (7 ) (a) 5,627 separate account business 476 476 total liabilities 1,587 430 2,017 53,004 (431 ) 54,590 minority interest 3,898 3,898 shareholders' equity 1,013 (328 ) 685 17,163 (257 ) (b) 17,591 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 2,600 $ 102 $ 2,702 $ 74,065 $ (688 ) $ 76,079 (a) to eliminate the notional intergroup debt and interest payable/receivable. (b) to eliminate the loews group's 37.6% equity interest in the combined attributed net assets of the carolina group. 168 notes to consolidated financial statements note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information (continued) loews and carolina group consolidating condensed balance sheet information adjustments carolina group loews and december 31, 2006 lorillard other consolidated group eliminations total (in millions) assets: investments $ 1,768 $ 101 $ 1,869 $ 52,001 $ 53,870 cash 1 1 2 116 118 receivables 16 16 12,936 $ (16 ) (a) 12,936 property, plant and equipment 196 196 5,294 5,490 deferred income taxes 496 496 110 606 goodwill and other intangible assets 294 294 other assets 282 282 1,592 1,874 investment in combined attributed net assets of the carolina group 1,289 (1,230 ) (a) (59 ) (b) deferred acquisition costs of insurance subsidiaries 1,190 1,190 separate account business 503 503 total assets $ 2,759 $ 102 $ 2,861 $ 75,325 $ (1,305 ) $ 76,881 liabilities and shareholders' equity: insurance reserves $ 41,080 $ 41,080 payable for securities purchased 1,047 1,047 collateral on loaned securities 3,602 3,602 short term debt 4 4 long term debt $ 1,230 $ 1,230 5,568 $ (1,230 ) (a) 5,568 reinsurance balances payable 539 539 other liabilities $ 1,464 11 1,475 3,681 (16 ) (a) 5,140 separate account business 503 503 total liabilities 1,464 1,241 2,705 56,024 (1,246 ) 57,483 minority interest 2,896 2,896 shareholders' equity 1,295 (1,139 ) 156 16,405 (59 ) (b) 16,502 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 2,759 $ 102 $ 2,861 $ 75,325 $ (1,305 ) $ 76,881 (a) to eliminate the notional intergroup debt and interest payable/receivable. (b) to eliminate the loews group's 37.7% equity interest in the combined attributed net assets of the carolina group. 169 notes to consolidated financial statements note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information (continued) loews and carolina group consolidating condensed statement of income information adjustments carolina group loews and year ended december 31, 2007 lorillard other consolidated group eliminations total (in millions) revenues: insurance premiums $ 7,482 $ 7,482 net investment income $ 106 $ 9 $ 115 2,850 $ (74 ) (a) 2,891 investment gains (losses) 3 3 (276 ) (273 ) gain on issuance of subsidiary stock 141 141 manufactured products 3,969 3,969 3,969 contract drilling revenues 2,506 2,506 other 1,664 1,664 total 4,078 9 4,087 14,367 (74 ) 18,380 expenses: insurance claims and policyholders' benefits 6,009 6,009 amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,520 1,520 cost of manufactured products sold 2,307 2,307 2,307 contract drilling expenses 1,011 1,011 other operating expenses 388 388 2,252 2,640 interest 74 74 318 (74 ) (a) 318 total 2,695 74 2,769 11,110 (74 ) 13,805 1,383 (65 ) 1,318 3,257 - 4,575 income tax expense (benefit) 485 (22 ) 463 1,018 1,481 minority interest 613 613 total 485 (22 ) 463 1,631 - 2,094 income (loss) from operations 898 (43 ) 855 1,626 - 2,481 equity in earnings of the carolina group 322 (322 ) (b) income (loss) from continuing operations 898 (43 ) 855 1,948 (322 ) 2,481 discontinued operations, net 8 8 net income (loss) $ 898 $ (43 ) $ 855 $ 1,956 $ (322 ) $ 2,489 (a) to eliminate interest on the notional intergroup debt. (b) to eliminate the loews group's intergroup interest in the earnings of the carolina group. 170 notes to consolidated financial statements note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information (continued) loews and carolina group consolidating condensed statement of income information adjustments carolina group loews and year ended december 31, 2006 lorillard other consolidated group eliminations total (in millions) revenues: insurance premiums $ 7,603 $ 7,603 net investment income $ 104 $ 9 $ 113 2,913 $ (116 ) (a) 2,910 investment gains (losses) (1 ) (1 ) 93 92 gain on issuance of subsidiary stock 9 9 manufactured products 3,755 3,755 3,755 contract drilling revenues 1,987 1,987 other 1,346 1,346 total 3,858 9 3,867 13,951 (116 ) 17,702 expenses: insurance claims and policyholders' benefits 6,047 6,047 amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,534 1,534 cost of manufactured products sold 2,160 2,160 2,160 contract drilling expenses 812 812 other operating expenses 354 354 2,056 2,410 restructuring and other related charges (13 ) (13 ) interest 116 116 304 (116 ) (a) 304 total 2,514 116 2,630 10,740 (116 ) 13,254 1,344 (107 ) 1,237 3,211 - 4,448 income tax expense (benefit) 518 (41 ) 477 965 1,442 minority interest 504 504 total 518 (41 ) 477 1,469 - 1,946 income (loss) from operations 826 (66 ) 760 1,742 - 2,502 equity in earnings of the carolina group 344 (344 ) (b) income (loss) from continuing operations 826 (66 ) 760 2,086 (344 ) 2,502 discontinued operations, net (11 ) (11 ) net income (loss) $ 826 $ (66 ) $ 760 $ 2,075 $ (344 ) $ 2,491 (a) to eliminate interest on the notional intergroup debt. (b) to eliminate the loews group's intergroup interest in the earnings of the carolina group. 171 notes to consolidated financial statements note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information (continued) loews and carolina group consolidating condensed statement of income information adjustments carolina group loews and year ended december 31, 2005 lorillard other consolidated group eliminations total (in millions) revenues: insurance premiums $ 7,569 $ 7,569 net investment income $ 63 $ 5 $ 68 2,170 $ (140 ) (a) 2,098 investment gains (losses) (2 ) (2 ) (11 ) (13 ) manufactured products 3,568 3,568 3,568 contract drilling revenues 1,179 1,179 other 6 6 1,425 1,431 total 3,635 5 3,640 12,332 (140 ) 15,832 expenses: insurance claims and policyholders' benefits 6,999 6,999 amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,543 1,543 cost of manufactured products sold 2,114 2,114 2,114 contract drilling expenses 639 639 other operating expenses 369 369 1,977 2,346 interest 1 140 141 363 (140 ) (a) 364 total 2,484 140 2,624 11,521 (140 ) 14,005 1,151 (135 ) 1,016 811 - 1,827 income tax expense (benefit) 445 (52 ) 393 90 483 minority interest 163 163 total 445 (52 ) 393 253 - 646 income (loss) from operations 706 (83 ) 623 558 - 1,181 equity in earnings of the carolina group 372 (372 ) (b) income (loss) from continuing operations 706 (83 ) 623 930 (372 ) 1,181 discontinued operations, net 31 31 net income (loss) $ 706 $ (83 ) $ 623 $ 961 $ (372 ) $ 1,212 (a) to eliminate interest on the notional intergroup debt. (b) to eliminate the loews group's intergroup interest in the earnings of the carolina group. 172 notes to consolidated financial statements note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information (continued) loews and carolina group consolidating condensed statement of cash flows information adjustments carolina group loews and year ended december 31, 2007 lorillard other consolidated group eliminations total (in millions) net cash provided by operating activities $ 882 $ (48 ) $ 834 $ 4,956 $ (119 ) $ 5,671 investing activities: purchases of property and equipment (51 ) (51 ) (2,246 ) (2,297 ) change in short term investments (82 ) (82 ) 2,571 2,489 other investing activities 418 418 (6,619 ) (806 ) (7,007 ) 285 - 285 (6,294 ) (806 ) (6,815 ) financing activities: dividends paid to shareholders (1,170 ) 854 (316 ) (134 ) 119 (331 ) reduction of notional intergroup debt (806 ) (806 ) 806 excess tax benefits from share- based payment arrangements 3 3 7 10 other financing activities 1,446 1,446 (1,167 ) 48 (1,119 ) 1,319 925 1,125 effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash 5 5 net change in cash - - - (14 ) - (14 ) net cash transactions from: continuing operations to discontinued operations 89 89 discontinued operations to continuing operations (89 ) (89 ) cash, beginning of year 1 1 2 172 174 cash, end of year $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 158 $ - $ 160 173 notes to consolidated financial statements note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information (continued) loews and carolina group consolidating condensed statement of cash flows information adjustments carolina group loews and year ended december 31, 2006 lorillard other consolidated group eliminations total (in millions) net cash provided by operating activities $ 778 $ (69 ) $ 709 $ 1,146 $ (140 ) $ 1,715 investing activities: purchases of property and equipment (30 ) (30 ) (904 ) (934 ) change in short term investments 417 417 (2,707 ) (2,290 ) other investing activities (385 ) (385 ) 1,369 (397 ) 587 2 - 2 (2,242 ) (397 ) (2,637 ) financing activities: dividends paid to shareholders (783 ) 466 (317 ) (131 ) 140 (308 ) reduction of notional intergroup debt (397 ) (397 ) 397 excess tax benefits from share- based payment arrangements 2 2 5 7 other financing activities 1,215 1,215 (781 ) 69 (712 ) 1,089 537 914 net change in cash (1 ) - (1 ) (7 ) - (8 ) net cash transactions from: continuing operations to discontinued operations 43 43 discontinued operations to continuing operations (43 ) (43 ) cash, beginning of year 2 1 3 179 182 cash, end of year $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 $ 172 $ - $ 174 174 notes to consolidated financial statements note 6. loews and carolina group consolidating condensed financial information (continued) loews and carolina group consolidating condensed statement of cash flows information adjustments carolina group loews and year ended december 31, 2005 lorillard other consolidated group eliminations total (in millions) net cash provided by operating activities $ 820 $ (85 ) $ 735 $ 2,819 $ (187 ) $ 3,367 investing activities: purchases of property and equipment (31 ) (31 ) (447 ) (478 ) change in short term investments (177 ) (177 ) (460 ) (637 ) other investing activities (415 ) (244 ) (659 ) (208 ) - (208 ) (1,322 ) (244 ) (1,774 ) financing activities: dividends paid to shareholders (646 ) 330 (316 ) (111 ) 187 (240 ) reduction of notional intergroup debt (244 ) (244 ) 244 other financing activities (1,405 ) (1,405 ) (646 ) 86 (560 ) (1,516 ) 431 (1,645 ) net change in cash (34 ) 1 (33 ) (19 ) - (52 ) net cash transactions from: continuing operations to discontinued operations (34 ) (34 ) discontinued operations to continuing operations 34 34 cash, beginning of year 36 36 198 234 cash, end of year $ 2 $ 1 $ 3 $ 179 $ - $ 182 note 7. receivables december 31 2007 2006 (in millions) reinsurance $ 8,689 $ 9,947 other insurance 2,284 2,476 security sales 361 326 accrued investment income 341 331 other 802 717 total 12,477 13,797 less: allowance for doubtful accounts on reinsurance receivables 461 469 allowance for other doubtful accounts and cash discounts 339 392 receivables $ 11,677 $ 12,936 175 notes to consolidated financial statements note 8. property, plant and equipment december 31 2007 2006 (in millions) land $ 73 $ 68 buildings and building equipment 755 704 offshore drilling equipment 4,540 3,897 machinery and equipment 1,868 1,365 pipeline equipment 2,445 1,901 natural gas and ngl proved and unproved properties 2,869 construction in process 1,433 661 leaseholds and leasehold improvements 79 70 total 14,062 8,666 less accumulated depreciation and amortization 3,637 3,176 property, plant and equipment $ 10,425 $ 5,490 the natural gas and ngl proved and unproved properties included above were acquired in the third quarter of 2007. see note 14. capitalized interest related to the construction and upgrade of qualifying assets amounted to approximately $56 million, $12 million and $1 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. diamond offshore construction projects construction in process at december 31, 2007, included $187 million related to the major upgrade of the ocean monarch to ultra-deepwater service and $266 million related to the construction of two new jack-up drilling units, the ocean scepter and the ocean shield . diamond offshore anticipates delivery of the ocean cepter and ocean shield in the second quarter of 2008. diamond offshore expects the upgrade of the ocean monarch to be completed in late 2008. boardwalk pipeline expansion projects boardwalk pipeline is engaged in several major expansion projects that will require the investment of significant capital resources. these projects include a pipeline expansion ( east texas to mississippi ) consisting of approximately 242 miles of 42-inch pipeline from desoto parish in western louisiana to near harrisville, mississippi and adding approximately 1.7 billion cubic feet ( bcf ) of new peak-day transmission capacity to its pipeline system. boardwalk pipeline is pursuing construction of a new interstate pipeline ( gulf crossing project ) that will begin near sherman, texas and proceed to the perryville, louisiana area and will consist of approximately 357 miles of 42-inch pipeline having approximately up to 1.7 bcf of peak-day transmission capacity. boardwalk pipeline is planning a pipeline expansion ( southeast expansion ) originating near harrisville, mississippi and extending to an interconnect with transcontinental pipe line company in choctaw county, alabama, which will consist of approximately 112 miles of 42-inch pipeline having initial capacity of approximately 1.2 bcf of peak-day transmission capacity and will be expanded to 2.2 bcf of peak-day transmission capacity. boardwalk pipeline is also pursuing the construction of two laterals connected to its pipeline system to transport gas from the fayetteville shale area in arkansas to markets directly and indirectly served by its existing interstate pipelines. the fayetteville lateral, consisting of approximately 165 miles of 36-inch pipeline, has an initial design capacity of approximately 0.8 bcf of peak-day transmission capacity. this lateral will originate in arkansas and proceed to mississippi. the greenville lateral, consisting of approximately 95 miles of pipeline with an initial design capacity of approximately 0.8 bcf of peak-day transmission capacity, will originate near greenville, mississippi and proceed east to the kosciusko, mississippi area. on december 31, 2007, boardwalk pipeline placed in service a portion of its east texas to mississippi expansion project from keatchie, louisiana in desoto parish to its interconnects with texas gas near bosco, louisiana and columbia gulf transmission pipeline at delhi, louisiana. as a result, approximately $476 million was transferred from construction in process to pipeline equipment. the assets will generally be depreciated over a term of 35 years. the remaining pipeline to harrisville, mississippi was placed in service during january of 2008. 176 notes to consolidated financial statements note 8. property, plant and equipment (continued) the total cost of the pipeline expansion projects discussed above is estimated to be approximately $4.5 billion. actual costs may exceed the current estimate due to a variety of factors, including delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, adverse weather conditions, delays in obtaining key materials, and shortages of qualified labor and escalating costs of labor and materials resulting from the high level of construction activity in the pipeline industry. depreciation, depletion and amortization ( dd&amp;a ) expense, including amortization of intangibles, and capital expenditures, are as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 capital capital capital dd &amp;a expend. dd &amp;a expend. dd &amp;a expend. (in millions) cna financial $ 53 $ 160 $ 42 $ 131 $ 42 $ 45 lorillard 40 51 47 30 48 31 loews hotels 26 27 25 21 27 16 diamond offshore 241 647 207 551 190 298 highmount 67 185 boardwalk pipeline 80 1,214 75 197 72 85 corporate and other 4 14 3 4 2 3 total $ 511 $ 2,298 $ 399 $ 934 $ 381 $ 478 note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves cna's property and casualty insurance claim and claim adjustment expense reserves represent the estimated amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including claims that are incurred but not reported ( ibnr ) as of the reporting date. cna's reserve projections are based primarily on detailed analysis of the facts in each case, cna's experience with similar cases and various historical development patterns. consideration is given to such historical patterns as field reserving trends and claims settlement practices, loss payments, pending levels of unpaid claims and product mix, as well as court decisions, economic conditions and public attitudes. all of these factors can affect the estimation of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, including claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for catastrophic events that have occurred, is an estimation process. many factors can ultimately affect the final settlement of a claim and, therefore, the necessary reserve. changes in the law, results of litigation, medical costs, the cost of repair materials and labor rates can all affect ultimate claim costs. in addition, time can be a critical part of reserving determinations since the longer the span between the incidence of a loss and the payment or settlement of the claim, the more variable the ultimate settlement amount can be. accordingly, short-tail claims, such as property damage claims, tend to be more reasonably estimable than long-tail claims, such as general liability and professional liability claims. adjustments to prior year reserve estimates, if necessary, are reflected in the results of operations in the period that the need for such adjustments is determined. catastrophes are an inherent risk of the property and casualty insurance business and have contributed to material period-to-period fluctuations in the company's results of operations and/or equity. catastrophe losses, related to events occurring in 2007, 2006, and 2005, net of reinsurance, were $78 million, $59 million and $493 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. the catastrophe losses in 2005 related primarily to hurricanes katrina, wilma, rita, dennis and ophelia. there can be no assurance that cna's ultimate cost for catastrophes will not exceed current estimates. commercial catastrophe losses, gross of reinsurance, were $79 million, $59 million and $976 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. 177 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) the table below provides a reconciliation between beginning and ending claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, including claim and claim adjustment expense reserves of the life company. year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) reserves, beginning of year: gross $ 29,636 $ 30,938 $ 31,523 ceded 8,191 10,605 13,879 net reserves, beginning of year 21,445 20,333 17,644 net incurred claim and claim adjustment expenses: provision for insured events of current year 4,939 4,840 5,516 increase in provision for insured events of prior years 231 361 1,100 amortization of discount 120 121 115 total net incurred (a) 5,290 5,322 6,731 net payments attributable to: current year events 867 835 1,335 prior year events 4,447 3,439 2,711 reinsurance recoverable against net reserve transferred under retroactive reinsurance agreements (17 ) (13 ) (10 ) total net payments (b) 5,297 4,261 4,036 foreign currency translation adjustment 94 51 (6 ) net reserves, end of year 21,532 21,445 20,333 ceded reserves, end of year 7,056 8,191 10,605 gross reserves, end of year $ 28,588 $ 29,636 $ 30,938 (a) total net incurred above does not agree to insurance claims and policyholders' benefits as reflected in the consolidated statements of income due to expenses incurred related to uncollectible reinsurance receivables and benefit expenses related to future policy benefits and policyholders' funds which are not reflected in the table above. (b) in 2006, net payments decreased by $935 due to the impact of significant commutations. in 2005, net payments decreased by $1,581 due to the impact of significant commutations. see note 19 for further discussion related to commutations. the changes in provision for insured events of prior years (net prior year claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development) were as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) asbestos and environmental pollution $ 7 $ 60 other 213 $ 332 1,047 property and casualty reserve development 220 332 1,107 life reserve development in life company 11 29 (7 ) total $ 231 $ 361 $ 1,100 178 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) the following tables summarize the gross and net carried reserves as of december 31, 2007 and 2006. life &amp; standard specialty group other december 31, 2007 lines lines non-core insurance total (in millions) gross case reserves $ 5,988 $ 2,585 $ 2,554 $ 2,159 $ 13,286 gross ibnr reserves 6,060 5,818 473 2,951 15,302 total gross carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 12,048 $ 8,403 $ 3,027 $ 5,110 $ 28,588 net case reserves $ 4,750 $ 2,090 $ 1,583 $ 1,328 $ 9,751 net ibnr reserves 5,170 4,527 297 1,787 11,781 total net carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 9,920 $ 6,617 $ 1,880 $ 3,115 $ 21,532 december 31, 2006 gross case reserves $ 5,826 $ 2,635 $ 2,366 $ 2,511 $ 13,338 gross ibnr reserves 6,691 5,311 768 3,528 16,298 total gross carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 12,517 $ 7,946 $ 3,134 $ 6,039 $ 29,636 net case reserves $ 4,571 $ 2,013 $ 1,496 $ 1,453 $ 9,533 net ibnr reserves 5,543 4,010 360 1,999 11,912 total net carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 10,114 $ 6,023 $ 1,856 $ 3,452 $ 21,445 the following provides discussion of cna's asbestos and environmental pollution ( a&amp;e ) and core reserves. a&amp;e reserves cna's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have actual and potential exposures related to a&amp;e claims. establishing reserves for a&amp;e claim and claim adjustment expenses is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;e, particularly in an environment of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise from industry practices and legal, judicial and social conditions. therefore, these traditional actuarial methods and techniques are necessarily supplemented with additional estimating techniques and methodologies, many of which involve significant judgments that are required of management. accordingly, a high degree of uncertainty remains for cna's ultimate liability for a&amp;e claim and claim adjustment expenses. in addition to the difficulties described above, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;e claims is subject to a higher degree of variability due to a number of additional factors, including among others: the number and outcome of direct actions against cna; coverage issues, including whether certain costs are covered under the policies and whether policy limits apply; allocation of liability among numerous parties, some of whom may be in bankruptcy proceedings, and in particular the application of joint and several liability to specific insurers on a risk; inconsistent court decisions and developing legal theories; continuing aggressive tactics of 179 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) plaintiffs' lawyers; the risks and lack of predictability inherent in major litigation; enactment of state and federal legislation to address asbestos claims; increases and decreases in asbestos and environmental pollution claims which cannot now be anticipated; increases and decreases in costs to defend asbestos and pollution claims; changing liability theories against cna's policyholders in environmental matters; possible exhaustion of underlying umbrella and excess coverage; and future developments pertaining to cna's ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and pollution claims. cna has annually performed ground up reviews of all open a&amp;e claims to evaluate the adequacy of its a&amp;e reserves. in performing its comprehensive ground up analysis, cna considers input from its professionals with direct responsibility for the claims, inside and outside counsel with responsibility for representation of cna and its actuarial staff. these professionals review, among many factors, the policyholder's present and predicted future exposures, including such factors as claims volume, trial conditions, prior settlement history, settlement demands and defense costs; the impact of asbestos defendant bankruptcies on the policyholder; the policies issued by cna, including such factors as aggregate or per occurrence limits, whether the policy is primary, umbrella or excess, and the existence of policyholder retentions and/or deductibles; the existence of other insurance; and reinsurance arrangements. the following table provides data related to cna's a&amp;e claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. december 31 2007 2006 environmental environmental asbestos pollution asbestos pollution (in millions) gross reserves $ 2,352 $ 367 $ 2,635 $ 427 ceded reserves (1,030 ) (125 ) (1,183 ) (142 ) net reserves $ 1,322 $ 242 $ 1,452 $ 285 asbestos cna's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposure to asbestos-related claims. estimation of asbestos-related claim and claim adjustment expense reserves involves limitations such as inconsistency of court decisions, specific policy provisions, allocation of liability among insurers and insureds, and additional factors such as missing policies and proof of coverage. furthermore, estimation of asbestos-related claims is difficult due to, among other reasons, the proliferation of bankruptcy proceedings and attendant uncertainties, the targeting of a broader range of businesses and entities as defendants, the uncertainty as to which other insureds may be targeted in the future and the uncertainties inherent in predicting the number of future claims. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, cna carried $1,322 million and $1,452 million of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, net of reinsurance recoverables, for reported and unreported asbestos-related claims. for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2005, cna recorded $6 million and $10 million of unfavorable asbestos-related net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development. cna recorded no asbestos-related net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development for the year ended december 31, 2006. cna paid asbestos-related claims, net of reinsurance recoveries, of $136 million, $102 million and $142 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. on february 2, 2007, cna paid $31 million to the owens corning fibreboard trust. such payment was made pursuant to cna's 1993 settlement with fibreboard. certain asbestos claim litigation in which cna is currently engaged is described below: the ultimate cost of reported claims, and in particular a&amp;e claims, is subject to a great many uncertainties, including future developments of various kinds that cna does not control and that are difficult or impossible to foresee accurately. with respect to the litigation identified below in particular, numerous factual and legal issues remain unresolved. rulings on those issues by the courts are critical to the evaluation of the ultimate cost to cna. the outcome of the litigation cannot be predicted with any reliability. accordingly, the extent of losses beyond any amounts that may be accrued are not readily determinable at this time. 180 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) on february 13, 2003, cna announced it had resolved asbestos-related coverage litigation and claims involving a.p. green industries, a.p. green services and bigelow liptak corporation. under the agreement, cna is required to pay $70 million, net of reinsurance recoveries, over a ten year period commencing after the final approval of a bankruptcy plan of reorganization. the settlement resolves cna's liabilities for all pending and future asbestos and silica claims involving a.p. green industries, bigelow liptak corporation and related subsidiaries, including alleged non-products exposures. the settlement received initial bankruptcy court approval on august 18, 2003. the debtor's plan of reorganization includes an injunction to protect cna from any future claims. the bankruptcy court issued an opinion on september 24, 2007 recommending confirmation of that plan; the district court affirmed that ruling on december 18, 2007. other insurer parties to the litigation have indicated their intent to appeal that ruling to the court of appeals. cna is engaged in insurance coverage litigation in new york state court, filed in 2003, with a defendant class of underlying plaintiffs who have asbestos bodily injury claims against the former robert a. keasbey company ( keasbey ) (continental casualty co. v. employers ins. of wausau et al. , no. 601037/03 (n.y. county)). keasbey, a currently dissolved corporation, was a seller and installer of asbestos-containing insulation products in new york and new jersey. thousands of plaintiffs have filed bodily injury claims against keasbey. however, under new york court rules, asbestos claims are not cognizable unless they meet certain minimum medical impairment standards. since 2002, when these court rules were adopted, only a small portion of such claims have met medical impairment criteria under new york court rules and as to the remaining claims, keasbey's involvement at a number of work sites is a highly contested issue. cna issued keasbey primary policies for 1970-1987 and excess policies for 1972-1978. cna has paid an amount substantially equal to the policies' aggregate limits for products and completed operations claims in the confirmed cna policies. claimants against keasbey allege, among other things, that cna owes coverage under sections of the policies not subject to the aggregate limits, an allegation cna vigorously contests in the lawsuit. in the litigation, cna and the claimants seek declaratory relief as to the interpretation of various policy provisions. on may 8, 2007, the court in the first phase of the trial held that all of cna's primary policy products aggregates were exhausted and that past products liability claims could not be recharacterized as operations claims. the court also found that while operations claims would not be subject to products aggregates, such claims could be made only against the policies in effect when the claimants were exposed to asbestos from keasbey operations. these holdings limit cna's exposure to those instances where keasbey used asbestos in operations between 1970 and 1987. keasbey largely ceased using asbestos in its operations in the early 1970's. cna noticed an appeal to the appellate division to challenge certain aspects of the court's ruling. other insurer parties to the litigation also filed separate notices of appeal to the court's ruling. the appeal was fully briefed and was argued on december 6, 2007. numerous legal issues remain to be resolved on appeal with respect to coverage that are critical to the final result, which cannot be predicted with any reliability. accordingly, the extent of losses beyond any amounts that may be accrued are not readily determinable at this time. cna has insurance coverage disputes related to asbestos bodily injury claims against a bankrupt insured, burns &amp; roe enterprises, inc. ( burns &amp; roe ). these disputes are currently part of coverage litigation (stayed in view of the bankruptcy) and an adversary proceeding in in re: burns &amp; roe enterprises, inc ., pending in the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of new jersey, no. 00-41610. burns &amp; roe provided engineering and related services in connection with construction projects. at the time of its bankruptcy filing, on december 4, 2000, burns &amp; roe asserted that it faced approximately 11,000 claims alleging bodily injury resulting from exposure to asbestos as a result of construction projects in which burns &amp; roe was involved. cna allegedly provided primary liability coverage to burns &amp; roe from 1956-1969 and 1971-1974, along with certain project-specific policies from 1964-1970. on december 5, 2005, burns &amp; roe filed its third amended plan of reorganization ( plan ). in september of 2007, cna entered into an agreement with burns &amp; roe, the official committee of unsecured creditors appointed by the bankruptcy court and the future claims representative (the addendum ), which provides that claims allegedly covered by cna policies will be adjudicated in the tort system, with any coverage disputes related to those claims to be decided in coverage litigation. on september 14, 2007, burns &amp; roe moved the bankruptcy court for approval of the addendum pursuant to bankruptcy rule 9019. after several extensions, the hearing on that motion is currently set for february 27, 2008. if approved, burns &amp; roe has agreed to include the addendum in the proposed plan, which will be the subject of a later confirmation hearing. with respect to both confirmation of the plan and coverage issues, numerous factual and legal issues remain to be resolved that are critical to the final result, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with any reliability. these factors include, among others: (a) whether 181 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) cna has any further responsibility to compensate claimants against burns &amp; roe under its policies and, if so, under which; (b) whether cna's responsibilities under its policies extend to a particular claimant's entire claim or only to a limited percentage of the claim; (c) whether cna's responsibilities under its policies are limited by the occurrence limits or other provisions of the policies; (d) whether certain exclusions, including professional liability exclusions, in some of cna's policies apply to exclude certain claims; (e) the extent to which claimants can establish exposure to asbestos materials as to which burns &amp; roe has any responsibility; (f) the legal theories which must be pursued by such claimants to establish the liability of burns &amp; roe and whether such theories can, in fact, be established; (g) the diseases and damages alleged by such claimants; (h) the extent that any liability of burns &amp; roe would be shared with other potentially responsible parties; and (i) the impact of bankruptcy proceedings on claims and coverage issue resolution. accordingly, the extent of losses beyond any amounts that may be accrued are not readily determinable at this time. suits have also been initiated directly against the cna companies and numerous other insurers in two jurisdictions: texas and montana. approximately 80 lawsuits were filed in texas beginning in 2002, against two cna companies and numerous other insurers and non-insurer corporate defendants asserting liability for failing to warn of the dangers of asbestos (e.g. boson v. union carbide corp., (nueces county, texas)). during 2003, several of the texas suits were dismissed as time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations. in other suits, the carriers argued that they did not owe any duty to the plaintiffs or the general public to advise the world generally or the plaintiffs particularly of the effects of asbestos and that texas statutes precluded liability for such claims, and two texas courts dismissed these suits. certain of the texas courts' rulings were appealed, but plaintiffs later dismissed their appeals. a different texas court denied similar motions seeking dismissal at the pleading stage, allowing limited discovery to proceed. after that court denied a related challenge to jurisdiction, the insurers transferred those cases, among others, to a state multi-district litigation court in harris county charged with handling asbestos cases, and the cases remain in that court. in february 2006, the insurers petitioned the appellate court in houston for an order of mandamus, requiring the multi-district litigation court to dismiss the cases on jurisdictional and substantive grounds. the texas attorney general filed an amicus curiae brief supporting the insurers' position. after a long period of no activity, the court asked the plaintiffs to file a response to the petition for mandamus. based on a letter from the appellate court, the insurers gave the multi-district litigation court an opportunity to reconsider the original court's action, but the court declined to do so, and the case has now been fully briefed and is back in front of the appellate court on the insurers' mandamus petition. with respect to this litigation in particular, numerous factual and legal issues remain to be resolved that are critical to the final result, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with any reliability. these factors include: (a) the speculative nature and unclear scope of any alleged duties owed to individuals exposed to asbestos and the resulting uncertainty as to the potential pool of potential claimants; (b) the fact that imposing such duties on all insurer and non-insurer corporate defendants would be unprecedented and, therefore, the legal boundaries of recovery are difficult to estimate; (c) the fact that many of the claims brought to date are barred by the statute of limitations and it is unclear whether future claims would also be barred; (d) the unclear nature of the required nexus between the acts of the defendants and the right of any particular claimant to recovery; and (e) the existence of hundreds of co-defendants in some of the suits and the applicability of the legal theories pled by the claimants to thousands of potential defendants. accordingly, the extent of losses beyond any amounts that may be accrued is not readily determinable at this time. on march 22, 2002, a direct action was filed in montana ( pennock, et al. v. maryland casualty, et al. first judicial district court of lewis &amp; clark county, montana) by eight individual plaintiffs (all employees of w.r. grace &amp; co. ( w.r. grace )) and their spouses against cna, maryland casualty and the state of montana. this action alleges that the carriers failed to warn of or otherwise protect w.r. grace employees from the dangers of asbestos at a w.r. grace vermiculite mining facility in libby, montana. the montana direct action is currently stayed because of w.r. grace's pending bankruptcy. with respect to such claims, numerous factual and legal issues remain to be resolved that are critical to the final result, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with any reliability. these factors include: (a) the unclear nature and scope of any alleged duties owed to people exposed to asbestos and the resulting uncertainty as to the potential pool of potential claimants; (b) the potential application of statutes of limitation to many of the claims which may be made depending on the nature and scope of the alleged duties; (c) the unclear nature of the required nexus between the acts of the defendants and the right of any particular claimant to recovery; (d) the diseases and damages claimed by such claimants; (e) the extent that such liability would be shared with other potentially responsible parties; and (f) the impact of bankruptcy proceedings on claims resolution. accordingly, the extent of losses beyond any amounts that may be accrued are not readily determinable at this time. 182 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) cna is vigorously defending these and other cases and believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted. however, there are numerous factual and legal issues to be resolved in connection with these claims, and it is extremely difficult to predict the outcome or ultimate financial exposure represented by these matters. adverse developments with respect to any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on cna's business and insurer financial strength and debt ratings and the company's results of operations and/or equity. environmental pollution as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, cna carried $242 million and $285 million of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, net of reinsurance recoverables, for reported and unreported environmental claims. there was $1 million of unfavorable environmental pollution net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development recorded for the year ended december 31, 2007. there was no unfavorable environmental pollution net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development recorded for the year ended december 31, 2006. cna noted adverse development in various pollution accounts in its 2005 ground up review. in the course of its review, cna did not observe a negative trend or deterioration in the underlying pollution claims environment. rather, individual account estimates changed due to changes in liability and/or coverage circumstances particular to those accounts. as a result, cna increased pollution reserves for prior accident years by $50 million in 2005. cna paid environmental pollution-related claims, net of reinsurance recoveries, of $44 million, $51 million and $56 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. net prior year claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development the following tables and discussion include the net prior year development recorded for the standard lines, specialty lines and other insurance segments for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. unfavorable net prior year development of $147 million was recorded in the life &amp; group non-core segment for the year ended december 31, 2007, primarily related to the settlement of the igi contingency. the igi contingency related to reinsurance arrangements with respect to personal accident insurance coverages provided between 1997 and 1999 which were the subject of arbitration proceedings. cna reached agreement in 2007 to settle the arbitration matter for a one-time payment of $250 million, which resulted in an incurred loss, net of reinsurance, of $167 million pretax. unfavorable net prior year development of $13 million and favorable net prior year development of $5 million was recorded in the life &amp; group non-core segment for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005. the development discussed below includes premium development due to its direct relationship to claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development. the development discussed below excludes the impact of the provision for uncollectible reinsurance, but includes the impact of commutations. see note 19 for further discussion of the provision for uncollectible reinsurance. in 2005, cna recorded favorable or unfavorable premium and claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development related to the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties as movements in the claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserves for the accident years covered by the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties indicated such development was required. while the available limit of these treaties was fully utilized in 2003, the ceded premiums and losses for an individual segment changed in subsequent years because of the re-estimation of the subject losses or commutations of the underlying contracts. in 2005, cna commuted a significant corporate aggregate reinsurance treaty and in 2006, cna commuted its remaining corporate aggregate reinsurance treaty. see note 19 for further discussion of the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties. 183 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) standard specialty other year ended december 31, 2007 lines lines insurance total (in millions) pretax unfavorable (favorable) net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development core (non-a&amp;e) $ (104 ) $ (25 ) $ 84 $ (45 ) a&amp;e 7 7 pretax unfavorable (favorable) net prior year development before impact of premium development (104 ) (25 ) 91 (38 ) pretax favorable premium development (19 ) (11 ) (5 ) (35 ) total pretax unfavorable (favorable) net prior year development $ (123 ) $ (36 ) $ 86 $ (73 ) year ended december 31, 2006 pretax unfavorable (favorable) net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development core (non-a&amp;e) $ 208 $ (61 ) $ 86 $ 233 a&amp;e pretax unfavorable (favorable) net prior year development before impact of premium development 208 (61 ) 86 233 pretax unfavorable (favorable) premium development (58 ) (5 ) 2 (61 ) total pretax unfavorable (favorable) net prior year development $ 150 $ (66 ) $ 88 $ 172 year ended december 31, 2005 pretax unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development excluding the impact of corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties: core (non-a&amp;e) $ 279 $ 139 $ 174 $ 592 a&amp;e 60 60 total 279 139 234 652 ceded losses related to corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties 154 34 57 245 pretax unfavorable net prior year development before impact of premium development 433 173 291 897 unfavorable (favorable) premium development, excluding impact of corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties (26 ) (87 ) 11 (102 ) ceded premiums related to corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties (4 ) 17 4 17 pretax unfavorable (favorable) premium development (30 ) (70 ) 15 (85 ) total pretax unfavorable net prior year development $ 403 $ 103 $ 306 $ 812 184 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) 2007 net prior year development standard lines approximately $184 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was due to decreased frequency and severity on claims within the general liability exposures in accident years 2005 and prior, as well as lower frequency in accident years 1997 and prior, related to construction defect. there was approximately $17 million of favorable premium development resulting from audits on recent policies. approximately $140 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was due to decreased frequency and severity on claims related to property exposures, primarily in accident years 2005 and 2006. included in this favorable development is approximately $39 million related to the 2005 hurricanes. approximately $16 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded in marine exposures, due primarily to decreased frequency in accident year 2006, and decreased severity in accident years 2005 and prior. approximately $16 million of unfavorable premium development was recorded related to cna's participation in involuntary pools. this unfavorable premium development was partially offset by $9 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development. approximately $257 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due to increased severity in workers' compensation exposures, primarily on large claims in accident years 2003 and prior, as a result of continued claim cost inflation in older accident years, driven by increasing medical inflation and advances in medical care. this was partially offset by $12 million of favorable premium development. specialty lines approximately $39 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded for large law firm exposures. the change was due to increased severity estimates on large claims in accident years 2005 and prior. the increase in severity was due to a comprehensive case by case claim review for large law firm exposures, causing an overall increase in estimated ultimate loss. approximately $59 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded in cna's foreign operations. this favorable development was recorded primarily due to decreased severity and frequency in accident years 2003 through 2006. approximately $37 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded on claims for healthcare facilities across several accident years. this was primarily due to decreased severity on claims within the general liability exposures and decreased incurred losses as a result of changes in individual claims reserve estimates. approximately $67 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded on claims for architects and engineers. this unfavorable development was primarily due to large loss emergence in accident years 1999 through 2004. approximately $16 million of favorable claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due primarily to better than expected loss experience in the vehicle warranty coverages in accident year 2006. the reserves for this business were initially estimated based on the loss ratio expected for the business. subsequent estimates rely more heavily on the actual case incurred losses, which have been significantly lower than expected. approximately $24 million of favorable claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to surety business resulting from better than expected salvage and subrogation recoveries from older accident years and a lack of emergence of large claims in more recent accident years. 185 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) other insurance approximately $9 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to commutation activity, a portion of which was offset by a release of a previously established allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. approximately $70 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due to higher than anticipated litigation costs related to miscellaneous chemical exposures, primarily in accident years 1997 and prior. 2006 net prior year development standard lines approximately $119 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was due to commutation activity that took place in the fourth quarter of 2006. approximately $102 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to casualty lines of business, primarily workers' compensation, due to continued claim cost inflation in older accident years, primarily 2002 and prior. the primary drivers of the continuing claim cost inflation were medical inflation and advances in medical care. favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development of approximately $88 million was recorded in relation to the short-tail coverages such as property and marine, primarily in accident years 2004 and 2005. the favorable results were primarily due to the underwriting actions taken by cna that significantly improved the results on this business and favorable outcomes on individual claims. the majority of the favorable premium development was due to additional premium primarily resulting from audits and changes to premium on several ceded reinsurance agreements. business impacted included various middle market liability coverages, workers' compensation, property, and large accounts. this favorable premium development was partially offset by approximately $44 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development recorded as a result of this favorable premium development. specialty lines approximately $55 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due to increased claim adjustment expenses and increased severities in the architects and engineers book of business in accident years 2003 and prior. previous reviews assumed that incurred severities had increased, at least in part, due to increases in the adequacy of case reserve estimates with relatively minor changes in underlying severity. subsequent changes in paid and case incurred losses have shown that more of the change was due to underlying increases in verdict and settlement size for these accident years rather than increases in case reserve adequacy, resulting in higher ultimate losses. one of the primary drivers of these larger verdicts and settlements is the continuing general increase in commercial and private real estate values. approximately $60 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was due to improved claim severity and claim frequency in the healthcare professional liability business, primarily in dental, nursing home liability, physicians and other healthcare facilities. the improved severity and frequency were due to underwriting changes. cna no longer writes large national nursing home chains and focuses on smaller insureds in selected areas of the country. these changes have resulted in business that experiences fewer large claims. approximately $15 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was primarily related to increased severity on individual large claims from large law firm errors and omissions ( e&amp;o ) and directors and officers ( d&amp;o ) coverages. these increases result in higher ultimate loss projections from the average loss methods used by cna's actuaries. 186 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) approximately $17 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded in the warranty line of business for accident years 2004 and 2005. the reserves for this business were initially estimated based on the loss ratio expected for the business. subsequent estimates rely more heavily on the actual case incurred losses due to the short-tail nature of this business. the short-tail nature of the business is due to the short period of time that passes between the time the business is written and the time when all claims are known and settled. case incurred loss for the most recent accident year has been lower than indicated by the initial loss ratio. approximately $43 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to favorable loss trends on accidents years 2002 through 2005 in cna's foreign operations, primarily europe and canada, in the marine, casualty, and property coverages. approximately $30 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to lower severities on the excess and surplus lines business in accident years 2000 and subsequent. these severity changes were driven primarily by favorable judicial decisions and settlement activities on individual cases. other insurance the majority of the unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was primarily related to cna's exposure arising from claims typically involving allegations by multiple plaintiffs alleging injury resulting from exposure to or use of similar substances or products over multiple policy periods. examples include, but are not limited to, lead paint claims, hardboard siding, polybutylene pipe, mold, silica, latex gloves, benzene products, welding rods, diet drugs, breast implants, medical devices, and various other toxic chemical exposures. during cna's 2006 ground up review, cna noted adverse development in various accounts. the adverse development resulted primarily from increases related to defense costs in a small number of accounts arising out of various substances and products. 2005 net prior year development standard lines during the fourth quarter of 2005, cna executed commutation agreements with certain reinsurers, including the commutation of a corporate aggregate reinsurance agreement. these agreements resulted in approximately $255 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development. this unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was partially offset by a release of a previously established allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. also, in the fourth quarter of 2005, reserve reviews of certain products were conducted and changes in reserve estimates were recorded. approximately $102 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was due to higher frequency and severity on claims related to excess workers' compensation, particularly in accident years 2003 and prior. the primary drivers of the higher frequency and severity were increasing medical inflation and advances in medical care. medical inflation increases the cost of claims resulting in more claims reaching the excess layers covered by cna. medical inflation also increases the size of claims in cna's layers. similarly, advances in medical care extend the life expectancies of claimants again resulting in additional costs to be covered by cna as well as more claims reaching the excess layers covered by cna. in addition, approximately $4 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due to increased severity on known claims on package policies provided to small businesses in accident years 2002 and 2003. approximately $4 million of favorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was due to less than expected losses in the involuntary business. approximately $140 million of favorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due to improvement in the severity and number of claims for property coverages and marine business, primarily in accident year 2004. the improvements in severity and frequency were substantially due to underwriting actions taken by cna that significantly improved the results on this business. 187 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) approximately $126 million of unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development resulted from increased severity trends for workers' compensation, primarily in accident years 2002 and prior. the primary drivers of the higher severity trends were increasing medical inflation and advances in medical care. medical inflation increases the cost of medical services, and advances in medical care extend the life expectancies of claimants resulting in additional costs to be covered by cna. approximately $15 million of unfavorable premium development was recorded in relation to this unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development which resulted from additional ceded reinsurance premium on agreements where the ceded premium is impacted by the level of ceded losses. approximately $76 million of unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was attributed to increased severity in liability coverages for large account policies. these increases were driven by increasing medical inflation and larger verdicts than anticipated, both of which increased the severity of these claims. the remainder of the favorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was primarily a result of improved experience on several coverages on middle market business, mainly in accident year 2004. favorable net prior year premium development was recorded primarily as a result of additional premium resulting from audits on recent policies, primarily workers' compensation. additionally, there was $15 million of unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development and $4 million of favorable premium development related to the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties, excluding the impact of a corporate aggregate reinsurance commutation as discussed above. specialty lines approximately $60 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due to increased claim adjustment expenses and increased severities in the architects and engineers book of business, in accident years 2000 through 2003. previous reviews assumed that severities had increased, at least in part, due to increases in the adequacy of case reserve estimates. subsequent changes in paid and incurred loss have shown that more of the change was due to larger verdicts and settlements during these accident years. one of the primary drivers of these larger verdicts and settlements is the continuing general increase in real estate values. favorable net prior year premium development of approximately $10 million was recorded in relation to this unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development. approximately $45 million of unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to large d&amp;o claims assumed from a london syndicate, primarily in accident years 2001 and prior. approximately $43 million of unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due to large claims under excess coverages provided to health care facilities. approximately $32 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development related to surety business was due to a favorable outcome on several specific large claims and lower than expected emergence of additional large claims related to accident years 1999 through 2003. approximately $61 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to a commutation agreement executed in the fourth quarter of 2005 of a corporate aggregate reinsurance agreement. this unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was partially offset by a release of a previously established allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. approximately $24 million of favorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded as a result of improvements in the claim severity and claim frequency, mainly in recent accident years, from nursing home businesses. the improved severity and frequency were due to underwriting 188 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) changes in this business. cna no longer writes large national chains and focuses on smaller insureds in selected areas of the country. these changes resulted in business that experiences fewer large claims. approximately $14 million of favorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was recorded due to lower severity in the dental program. the lower severity was driven by efforts to resolve a higher percentage of claims without a resulting indemnity payment. approximately $10 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was due to lower severities in the excess and surplus lines runoff business in accident years 2001 and prior. these severity changes were driven primarily by judicial decisions and settlement activities on individual cases. approximately $23 million of favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to favorable loss trends on accidents years 2002 and subsequent in cna's foreign operations, specifically europe and canada, primarily in property, cargo and marine coverages. approximately $90 million of unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development and $83 million of favorable net prior year premium development resulted from an unfavorable arbitration ruling on two reinsurance treaties. approximately $53 million of unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to reviews of liquor liability, trucking and habitational business that indicated that the number of large claims was higher than previously expected in recent accident years. the remainder of the favorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was primarily attributed to favorable experience in the warranty line of business, partially offset by unfavorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development attributed to other large d&amp;o claims. additionally, there was approximately $21 million of favorable net prior year claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development and $17 million of unfavorable premium development related to the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties in 2005, excluding the impact of a corporate aggregate reinsurance commutation as discussed above. other insurance approximately $157 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was attributable to cna's assumed reinsurance operations, driven by a significant increase in large claim activity during 2005 across multiple accident years. this development was concentrated in the proportional liability, excess of loss liability, and professional liability business, which impacted underlying coverages that included general liability, umbrella, e&amp;o and d&amp;o. cna's assumed reinsurance operations were put into run-off in 2003. during the fourth quarter of 2005, cna executed significant commutation agreements with certain reinsurers, including the commutation of a corporate aggregate reinsurance agreement. these agreements resulted in approximately $62 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development. approximately $56 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development recorded in 2005 was a result of a second quarter commutation of a finite reinsurance contract put in place in 1992. cna recaptured $400 million of losses and received $344 million of cash. the commutation was economically attractive because of the reinsurance agreement's contractual interest rate and maintenance charges. approximately $6 million of unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was related to the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties, excluding the impact of a corporate aggregate reinsurance commutation as discussed above. the unfavorable premium development was driven by $10 million of additional ceded reinsurance premium on agreements where the ceded premium depends on the ceded loss and $4 million of additional premium ceded to the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties. 189 notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (continued) cna noted adverse development in various pollution accounts in its 2005 ground up review. in the course of its review, cna did not observe a negative trend or deterioration in the underlying pollution claims environment. rather, individual account estimates changed due to changes in the liability and/or coverage circumstances particular to those accounts. as a result, cna increased pollution reserves by $50 million in 2005. the overall unfavorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development was partially decreased by favorable claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserve development in various other programs in runoff, including financial guarantee, guarantee and credit, and mortgage guarantee. these programs exhibited favorable trends due to offsetting recoveries and commutations, leading to reductions in the estimated liabilities. note 10. leases leases cover office facilities, machinery and computer equipment. the company's hotels in some instances are constructed on leased land. rent expense amounted to $81 million, $80 million and $97 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the table below presents the future minimum lease payments to be made under non-cancelable operating leases along with lease and sublease minimum receipts to be received on owned and leased properties. future minimum lease year ended december 31 payments receipts (in millions) 2008 $ 103 $ 3 2009 88 3 2010 64 3 2011 53 2 2012 46 3 thereafter 121 3 total $ 475 $ 17 note 11. income taxes the company and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. the company has entered into a separate tax allocation agreement with cna, a majority-owned subsidiary in which its ownership exceeds 80%. the agreement provides that the company will (i) pay to cna the amount, if any, by which the company's consolidated federal income tax is reduced by virtue of inclusion of cna in the company's return, or (ii) be paid by cna an amount, if any, equal to the federal income tax that would have been payable by cna if it had filed a separate consolidated return. the agreement may be canceled by either of the parties upon thirty days written notice. the company settled its 2005 federal income tax return with the internal revenue service ( irs ) in 2007. the outcome of this examination did not have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations of the company. in 2006, the company's consolidated federal income tax returns for 2002 through 2004 were settled with the irs, including related carryback claims for refund which were approved by the joint committee on taxation. as a result, the company recorded a federal income tax benefit of $9 million and net refund interest of $2 million, net of tax and minority interest, in the year ended december 31, 2006. in 2005, the company's consolidated federal income tax returns were settled with the irs through 2001 as the tax returns for 1998 through 2001, including related carryback claims and prior claims for refund, were approved by the joint committee on taxation. as a result, the company recorded net refund interest of $131 million that is included in other revenues in the consolidated statements of income. subsequent to this settlement, a review of tax liabilities was performed and the company reduced its deferred tax liabilities by $59 million for the year ended december 31, 2005. the tax benefit related primarily to the release of federal income tax reserves. 190 notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. income taxes (continued) the federal income tax return for 2006 is subject to examination by the irs. in addition for 2007 and 2008, the irs has invited the company to participate in the compliance assurance process ( cap ), which is a voluntary program for a limited number of large corporations. under cap, the irs conducts a real-time audit and works contemporaneously with the company to resolve any issues prior to the filing of the tax return. the company has agreed to participate. the company believes this approach should reduce tax-related uncertainties, if any. the company and/or its subsidiaries also file income tax returns in various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. these returns, with few exceptions, are no longer subject to examination by the various taxing authorities before 2000. as discussed in note 1, the company adopted the provisions of fin no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, on january 1, 2007. as a result of the implementation of fin no. 48, the company recognized a decrease to beginning retained earnings on january 1, 2007 of $37 million. the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption was approximately $70 million. included in the balance at january 1, 2007, were $51 million of tax positions that if recognized would affect the effective tax rate. a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: (in millions) balance, january 1, 2007 $ 70 additions based on tax positions related to the current year 12 additions for tax positions of prior years 3 reductions for tax positions related to the current year (23 ) settlements (6 ) expiration of statute of limitations (3 ) balance, december 31, 2007 $ 53 the company anticipates that it is reasonably possible that payments of approximately $2 million will be made primarily due to the conclusion of state income tax examinations within the next 12 months. additionally, certain state and foreign income tax returns will no longer be subject to examination and as a result, there is a reasonable possibility that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by $7 million. at december 31, 2007, there were $42 million of tax benefits that if recognized would affect the effective rate. the company recognizes interest accrued related to: (1) unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense and (2) tax refund claims in other revenues on the consolidated statements of income. the company recognizes penalties in income tax expense (benefit) on the consolidated statements of income. during 2007, the company recorded charges of approximately $4 million for interest expense and $2 million for penalties. provision has been made for the expected u.s. federal income tax liabilities applicable to undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, except for certain subsidiaries for which the company intends to invest the undistributed earnings indefinitely, or recover such undistributed earnings tax-free. at december 31, 2007, the company has not provided deferred taxes of $126 million, if sold through a taxable sale, on $361 million of undistributed earnings related to a domestic affiliate. the determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries is not practicable. in connection with a non-recurring distribution of $850 million to diamond offshore from a foreign subsidiary, a portion of which consisted of earnings of the subsidiary that had not previously been subjected to u.s. federal income tax, diamond offshore recognized $59 million of u.s. federal income tax expense as a result of the distribution. it remains diamond offshore's intention to indefinitely reinvest future earnings of the subsidiary to finance foreign activities. total income tax expense for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, was different than the amounts of $1,601 million, $1,557 million and $639 million, computed by applying the statutory u.s. federal income tax rate of 35% to income before income taxes and minority interest for each of the years. 191 notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. income taxes (continued) a reconciliation between the statutory federal income tax rate and the company's effective income tax rate as a percentage of income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) and minority interest is as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 statutory rate 35 % 35 % 35 % increase (decrease) in income tax rate resulting from: exempt interest and dividends received deduction (2 ) (2 ) (7 ) state and city income taxes 1 1 3 foreign earnings indefinitely reinvested (2 ) (1 ) taxes related to foreign distribution 1 prior year tax settlements (3 ) other (1 ) (1 ) (2 ) effective income tax rate 32 % 32 % 26 % the current and deferred components of income tax expense (benefit), excluding taxes on discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of the changes in accounting principles, are as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) income tax expense (benefit): federal: current $ 1,340 $ 1,068 $ 517 deferred (27 ) 251 (117 ) state and city: current 99 96 71 deferred (16 ) 4 7 foreign 85 23 5 total $ 1,481 $ 1,442 $ 483 deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows: december 31 2007 2006 (in millions) deferred tax assets: insurance reserves: property and casualty claim and claim adjustment expense reserves $ 771 $ 775 unearned premium reserves 243 245 life reserves 89 132 other insurance reserves 24 26 receivables 231 248 tobacco settlements 520 436 employee benefits 277 339 life settlement contracts 73 102 investment valuation differences 286 93 net operating loss carried forward 22 26 net unrealized losses 35 basis differential in investment in subsidiary 31 33 other 244 240 deferred tax assets 2,846 2,695 192 notes to consolidated financial statements note 11. income taxes (continued) december 31 2007 2006 (in millions) deferred tax liabilities: deferred acquisition costs $ (635 ) $ (648 ) net unrealized gains (25 ) (364 ) property, plant and equipment (573 ) (522 ) foreign and other affiliates (4 ) (11 ) basis differential in investment in subsidiary (283 ) (231 ) contingent interest (1 ) (53 ) other liabilities (326 ) (260 ) gross deferred tax liabilities (1,847 ) (2,089 ) net deferred tax assets $ 999 $ 606 although realization of deferred tax assets is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the recognized net deferred tax asset will be realized through future earnings, including but not limited to future income from continuing operations, reversal of existing temporary differences, and available tax planning strategies. as a result, no valuation allowance was recorded at december 31, 2007 and 2006. at december 31, 2007, diamond offshore, which is not included in the company's consolidated federal income tax return, had a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $5 million which will expire by 2010. it is expected that the net operating loss carryforward will be fully utilized by diamond offshore in future years. diamond offshore is currently under audit by the irs for 2004 and 2005. diamond offshore's 2006 return remains subject to examination. note 12. debt unamortized short term long term december 31, 2007 principal discount net debt debt (in millions) loews corporation $ 875 $ 9 $ 866 $ 866 cna financial 2,167 10 2,157 $ 350 1,807 diamond offshore 507 1 506 3 503 highmount 1,647 1,647 1,647 boardwalk pipeline 1,860 12 1,848 1,848 loews hotels 234 234 5 229 total $ 7,290 $ 32 $ 7,258 $ 358 $ 6,900 193 notes to consolidated financial statements note 12. debt (continued) december 31 2007 2006 (in millions) loews corporation (parent company): senior: 8.9% debentures due 2011 (effective interest rate of 9.0%) (authorized, $175) $ 175 $ 175 5.3% notes due 2016 (effective interest rate of 5.4%) (authorized, $400) (a) 400 400 6.0% notes due 2035 (effective interest rate of 6.2%) (authorized, $300) (a) 300 300 cna financial: senior: 6.5% notes due 2008 (effective interest rate of 6.6%) (authorized, $150) 150 150 6.6% notes due 2008 (effective interest rate of 6.7%) (authorized, $200) 200 200 6.0% notes due 2011(effective interest rate of 6.1%) (authorized, $400) 400 400 8.4% notes due 2012 (effective interest rate of 8.6%) (authorized, $100) 70 69 5.9% notes due 2014 (effective interest rate of 6.0%) (authorized $549) 549 549 6.5% notes due 2016 (effective interest rate of 6.6%) (authorized, $350) 350 350 7.0% notes due 2018 (effective interest rate of 7.1%) (authorized, $150) 150 150 7.3% debentures due 2023 (effective interest rate of 7.3%) (authorized, $250) 243 243 5.1% debentures due 2034 (effective interest rate of 5.1%) (authorized, $31) 31 31 other senior debt (effective interest rates approximate 5.1% and 5.0%) 24 25 diamond offshore: senior: 5.2% notes, due 2014 (effective interest rate of 5.2%) (authorized, $250) (a) 250 250 4.9% notes, due 2015 (effective interest rate of 5.0%) (authorized, $250) (a) 250 250 zero coupon convertible debentures due 2020, net of discount of $2 and $3 (effective interest rate of 3.6%) (b) 3 5 1.5% convertible senior debentures due 2031 (effective interest rate of 1.6%) (authorized $460) (c) 4 460 highmount: senior: variable rate term loans due 2012 (effective interest rate of 5.8%) 1,600 variable rate revolving credit facility due 2012 (effective interest rate of 5.6%) 47 boardwalk pipeline: senior: 5.9% notes due 2016 (effective interest of 6.0%) (authorized, $250) (a) 250 250 5.5% notes due 2017 (effective interest rate of 5.6%) (authorized, $300) (a) 300 300 5.2% notes due 2018 (effective interest rate of 5.4%) (authorized, $185) (a) 185 185 texas gas: senior: 4.6% notes due 2015 (effective interest rate of 5.1%)(authorized, $250) (a) 250 250 7.3% debentures due 2027 (effective interest rate of 8.1%) (authorized, $100) 100 100 gulf south: senior: 5.8% notes due 2012 (effective interest rate of 5.9%) (authorized, $225) (a) 225 5.1% notes due 2015 (effective interest rate of 5.2%)(authorized, $275) (a) 275 275 6.3% notes due 2017 (effective interest rate of 6.4%) (authorized, $275) (a) 275 loews hotels: senior debt, principally mortgages (effective interest rates approximate 4.8%) 234 236 7,290 5,603 less unamortized discount 32 31 debt $ 7,258 $ 5,572 194 notes to consolidated financial statements note 12. debt (continued) (a) redeemable in whole or in part at the greater of the principal amount or the net present value of scheduled payments discounted at the specified treasury rate plus a margin. (b) the debentures are convertible into diamond offshore's common stock at the rate of 8.6075 shares per one thousand dollars principal amount, subject to adjustment. each debenture will be purchased by diamond offshore at the option of the holder on the tenth and fifteenth anniversaries of issuance at the accreted value through the date of repurchase. the debentures were issued on june 6, 2000. diamond offshore, at its option, may elect to pay the purchase price in cash or shares of common stock, or in certain combinations thereof. the debentures are redeemable at the option of diamond offshore at any time at prices which reflect a yield of 3.5% to the holder. (c) the debentures are convertible into diamond offshore's common stock at the rate of 20.3978 shares per one thousand dollars principal amount, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. upon conversion, diamond offshore has the right to deliver cash in lieu of shares of its common stock. diamond offshore may redeem all or a portion of the debentures at any time on or after april 15, 2008 at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount. holders may require diamond offshore to purchase all or a portion of the debentures on april 15, 2008, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount. diamond offshore, at its option, may elect to pay the purchase price in cash or shares of common stock, or in certain combinations thereof. in august of 2007, cna entered into a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks and other lenders. the credit agreement established a five-year $250 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility which is intended to be used for general corporate purposes. as of december 31, 2007, cna had no outstanding borrowings under the agreement. under the credit agreement, cna is required to pay certain fees, including a facility fee and a utilization fee, both of which would adjust automatically in the event of a change in cna's financial ratings. the credit agreement includes several covenants including maintenance of a minimum consolidated net worth and a specified ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated total capitalization. in the normal course of business, cna has provided letters of credit in favor of various unaffiliated insurance companies, regulatory authorities and other entities. at december 31, 2007 there were approximately $7 million of outstanding letters of credit. as of december 31, 2007, there were no loans outstanding under diamond offshore's $285 million credit facility; however, $54 million in letters of credit were issued which reduced the available capacity under the facility. on july 31, 2007, highmount entered into $1.6 billion of term loans (the acquisition debt ) in conjunction with the acquisition described in note 14. the acquisition debt bears interest at a variable rate equal to the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) plus an applicable margin and matures on july 26, 2012, subject to acceleration by the lenders upon the occurrence of customary events of default. highmount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $1.6 billion to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate at 5.8%. a credit agreement also provides for a five year, $400 million revolving credit facility, borrowings under which bear interest at a variable rate equal to libor plus an applicable margin. as of december 31, 2007, $47 million was outstanding under the facility. in addition, $6 million in letters of credit were issued, which reduced the available capacity to $347 million. in august of 2007, gulf south pipeline, lp, a wholly owned subsidiary of boardwalk pipeline, issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes, consisting of $225 million aggregate principal amount of 5.8% senior notes due 2012 and $275 million aggregate principal amount of 6.3% senior notes due 2017. the proceeds from this offering will primarily be used to finance a portion of gulf south's expansion projects. as of december 31, 2007, boardwalk pipeline had outstanding letters of credit for $186 million to support certain obligations associated with its fayetteville lateral and gulf crossing expansion projects. boardwalk pipeline maintains a $1.0 billion credit facility, which was recently increased from $700 million. the outstanding letters of credit reduced the available capacity under its $1.0 billion credit facility to $814 million. at december 31, 2007, the aggregate of long term debt maturing in each of the next five years is approximately as follows: $358 million in 2008, $74 million in 2009, $8 million in 2010, $580 million in 2011, $1,946 million in 2012 and $4,324 million thereafter. 195 notes to consolidated financial statements note 13. comprehensive income (loss) the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows: accumulated unrealized other gains (losses) foreign pension comprehensive on investments currency liability income (loss) (in millions) balance, january 1, 2005 $ 713 $ 69 $ (185 ) $ 597 unrealized holding gains, net of tax of $88 (103 ) (103 ) adjustment for items included in net income, net of tax of $71 (121 ) (121 ) foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax of $2 (20 ) (20 ) minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $24 (42 ) (42 ) balance, december 31, 2005 489 49 (227 ) 311 unrealized holding gains, net of tax of $67 106 106 adjustment for items included in net income, net of tax of $6 (11 ) (11 ) foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax 37 37 minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $49 87 87 adjustment to initially apply sfas no. 158, net of tax of $78 (143 ) (143 ) balance, december 31, 2006 584 86 (283 ) 387 unrealized holding losses, net of tax of $258 (413 ) (413 ) adjustment for items included in net income, net of tax of $87 (159 ) (159 ) foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax 31 31 pension liability adjustment, net of tax of $52 89 89 balance, december 31, 2007 $ 12 $ 117 $ (194 ) $ (65 ) note 14. significant transactions acquisition of business on july 31, 2007, highmount acquired, through its subsidiaries, certain exploration and production assets and assumed certain related obligations, from subsidiaries of dominion for $4.0 billion, subject to adjustment. the acquired business consists primarily of natural gas exploration and production operations located in the permian basin in texas, the antrim shale in michigan and the black warrior basin in alabama, with estimated proved reserves totaling approximately 2.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent (unaudited). these properties produce predominantly natural gas and related natural gas liquids and are characterized by long reserve lives and high well completion success rates. the amount of tax deductible goodwill is $1.0 billion. the acquisition was funded with approximately $2.4 billion in cash and $1.6 billion of acquisition debt described in note 12. 196 notes to consolidated financial statements note 14. significant transactions (continued) the preliminary allocation of purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired was as follows: (in millions) property, plant and equipment $ 2,961 deferred income taxes 14 goodwill and other intangibles 1,061 other assets 43 other liabilities (49 ) $ 4,030 diamond offshore in 2007, the holders of $456 million in principal amount of diamond offshore's 1.5% debentures converted their outstanding debentures into 9.3 million shares of diamond offshore's common stock at a price of $49.02 per share. in addition, the holders of $2 million aggregate principal amount at maturity of diamond offshore's zero coupon debentures converted their outstanding debentures into 20,658 shares of diamond offshore's common stock at a price of $73.00 per share. the company's ownership interest in diamond offshore declined from approximately 54% to 51% due to these transactions. in accordance with sab no. 51, the company recognized a pretax gain of $143 million ($93 million after provision for deferred income taxes) on the issuance of subsidiary stock. prior to the conversion of diamond offshore's 1.5% convertible debentures, the company carried a deferred tax liability related to interest expense imputed on the bonds for u.s. federal income tax purposes. as a result of the conversion, the deferred tax liability was settled and a tax benefit of $29 million, net of minority interest, was included in shareholders' equity as an increase in additional paid-in-capital. boardwalk pipeline in the first and fourth quarters of 2007, boardwalk pipeline sold 8.0 million and 7.5 million common units at a price of $36.50 and $30.90 per unit in a public offering and received net proceeds of $288 million and $228 million, respectively. in addition, the company contributed $6 million and $5 million, respectively to maintain its 2.0% general partner interest. the company's ownership interest in boardwalk pipeline declined from approximately 80% to 70% as a result of these transactions. the issuance price of the common units exceeded the company's carrying amount, increasing the amount of cumulative pretax sab no. 51 gains to approximately $472 million at december 31, 2007, from $235 million at december 31, 2006. in accordance with sab no. 51, recognition of a gain is only appropriate if the class of securities sold by the subsidiary does not contain any preference over the subsidiary's other classes of securities. as a result, the company has deferred gain recognition until the subordinated units are converted into common units. provided the subordinated units convert into common units after january 1, 2009, the company will not recognize a gain in the income statement, pursuant to the terms of sfas no. 160. note 15. restructuring and other related charges in 2001, cna finalized and approved a restructuring plan related to the property and casualty segments and life &amp; group non-core segment, discontinuation of its variable life and annuity business and consolidation of real estate locations. during 2006, management reevaluated the sufficiency of the remaining accrual, which related to lease termination costs, and determined that the liability was no longer required as cna had completed its lease obligations. as a result, the excess remaining accrual was released in 2006, resulting in pretax income of $13 million for the year ended december 31, 2006. during 2005, approximately $1 million of costs were paid. the initial restructuring and other related charges amounted to $189 million in 2001. 197 notes to consolidated financial statements note 16. statutory accounting practices (unaudited) cna's domestic insurance subsidiaries maintain their accounts in conformity with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by insurance regulatory authorities, which vary in certain respects from gaap. in converting from statutory accounting principles to gaap, typical adjustments include deferral of policy acquisition costs and the inclusion of net unrealized holding gains or losses in shareholders' equity relating to certain fixed maturity securities. cna's insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in various jurisdictions. these subsidiaries prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the respective jurisdictions' insurance regulators. prescribed statutory accounting practices are set forth in a variety of publications of the national association of insurance commissioners ( naic ) as well as state laws, regulations and general administrative rules. ccc follows a permitted practice related to the statutory provision for reinsurance, or the uncollectible reinsurance reserve. this permitted practice allows ccc to record an additional uncollectible reinsurance reserve amount through a different financial statement line item than the prescribed statutory convention. this permitted practice had no effect on ccc's statutory surplus at december 31, 2007 or 2006. cna's ability to pay dividends and other credit obligations is significantly dependent on receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries. the payment of dividends to cna by its insurance subsidiaries without prior approval of the insurance department of each subsidiary's domiciliary jurisdiction is limited by formula. dividends in excess of these amounts are subject to prior approval by the respective state insurance departments. dividends from ccc are subject to the insurance holding company laws of the state of illinois, the domiciliary state of ccc. under these laws, ordinary dividends, or dividends that do not require prior approval of the illinois department of financial and professional regulation division of insurance (the department ), may be paid only from earned surplus, which is calculated by removing unrealized gains from unassigned surplus. as of december 31, 2007, ccc is in a positive earned surplus position, enabling ccc to pay approximately $630 million of dividend payments during 2008 that would not be subject to the department's prior approval. the actual level of dividends paid in any year is determined after an assessment of available dividend capacity, holding company liquidity and cash needs as well as the impact the dividends will have on the statutory surplus of the applicable insurance company. cna's domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements. risk-based capital is a method developed by the naic to determine the minimum amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations in consideration of its size and risk profile. the formula for determining the amount of risk-based capital specifies various factors, weighted based on the perceived degree of risk, which are applied to certain financial balances and financial activity. the adequacy of a company's actual capital is evaluated by a comparison to the risk-based capital results, as determined by the formula. companies below minimum risk-based capital requirements are classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, all of cna's domestic insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum risk-based capital requirements. combined statutory capital and surplus and net income, determined in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or permitted by insurance regulatory authorities for the property and casualty and the life insurance subsidiaries, were as follows: statutory capital and surplus statutory net income december 31 (a) year ended december 31 unaudited 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) property and casualty companies $ 8,511 $ 8,137 $ 575 $ 721 $ 550 life company 471 687 27 67 65 (a) surplus includes the property and casualty companies' equity ownership of the life company's capital and surplus. 198 notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. supplemental natural gas and ngl information (unaudited) users of this information should be aware that the process of estimating quantities of proved and proved developed natural gas, ngls and crude oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of all available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. the data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. as a result, revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur from time to time. although every reasonable effort is made to ensure reserve estimates reported represent the most accurate assessments possible, the subjective decisions and variances in available data for various reservoirs make these estimates generally less precise than other estimates included in the financial statement disclosures. proved reserves represent estimated quantities of natural gas, ngls and crude oil that geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under economic and operating conditions in effect when the estimates were made. proved developed reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered through wells and equipment in place and under operating methods used when the estimates were made. estimates of proved reserves at december 31, 2007 were prepared by highmount's staff engineers and reviewed by ryder scott company, l.p., highmount's independent consulting petroleum engineers. all proved reserves are located in the united states of america. estimated net quantities of proved natural gas and oil (including condensate and ngls) reserves at december 31, 2007 and changes in the reserves during 2007 are shown in the schedule below: natural proved developed and undeveloped reserves gas (1) ngls (bcf) (thousands of barrels) january 1, 2007 - - changes in reserves: extensions, discoveries and other additions 62 3,877 revisions of previous estimates (2) (51 ) 2,164 production (34 ) (1,627 ) purchases of reserves in place 1,919 91,868 december 31, 2007 1,896 96,282 proved developed reserves at december 31, 2007 1,394 67,371 (1) excludes reserves associated with volumetric production payment ( vpp ) delivery obligations. (2) the 2007 revision is primarily attributable to lower than expected ngl recovery yield on some of highmount's gas that is processed by third parties, as well as the aggregate result of revisions to individual wells based upon engineering and geologic analyses. the aggregate amounts of costs capitalized for natural gas and ngl producing activities, and related aggregate amounts of accumulated depletion follow: december 31 2007 (in millions) subject to depletion $ 2,443 costs excluded from depletion 426 gross natural gas and ngl properties 2,869 less accumulated depletion 62 net natural gas and ngl properties $ 2,807 199 notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. supplemental natural gas and ngl information (unaudited) (continued) the following costs were incurred in natural gas and ngl producing activities: year ended december 31 2007 (in millions) acquisition of properties proved $ 2,245 unproved 431 subtotal 2,676 exploration costs 7 development costs (1) 186 total $ 2,869 (1) development costs incurred for proved undeveloped reserves were $60 million. standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved natural gas and ngl reserves the following table has been prepared utilizing sfas no. 69, disclosures about oil and gas producing activities, rules for disclosure of a standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved natural gas and ngl reserve quantities that highmount owns: december 31 2007 (in millions) future cash inflows (1) $ 17,235 less: future production costs 3,565 future development costs 1,159 future income tax expense 3,594 future cash flows 8,917 less annual discount (10% a year) 5,907 standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows $ 3,010 (1) amounts exclude the effect of derivative instruments designated as hedges of future sales of production at year-end. year-end prices used in the calculation of future cash flows are $6.80 per million british thermal units of gas, $62.16 per barrel of ngl, and $96.00 per barrel of oil. in the foregoing determination of future cash inflows, sales prices for natural gas and ngl were based on contractual arrangements or market prices at year-end. future costs of developing and producing the proved natural gas and ngl reserves reported at the end of each year shown were based on costs determined at each such year end, assuming the continuation of existing economic conditions. future income taxes were computed by applying the appropriate year-end or future statutory tax rate to future pretax net cash flows, less the tax basis of the properties involved, and giving effect to tax deductions, permanent differences and tax credits. it is not intended that the fasb's standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows represent the fair market value of highmount's proved reserves. highmount cautions that the disclosures shown are based on estimates of proved reserve quantities and future production schedules which are inherently imprecise and subject to revision, and the 10% discount rate is arbitrary. in addition, costs and prices as of the measurement date are used in the determinations, and no value may be assigned to probable or possible reserves. 200 notes to consolidated financial statements note 17. supplemental natural gas and ngl information (unaudited) (continued) changes in standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved natural gas and ngl reserves the following table is a summary of changes between the total standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at the beginning and end of each year: (in millions) standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at january 1, 2007 $ - changes in the year resulting from: sales and transfers of natural gas and ngl produced during the year, less production costs (209 ) extensions, discoveries and other additions, less production and development costs 177 revisions of previous quantity estimates (230 ) net changes in purchases and sales of proved reserves in place 4,184 accretion of discount 166 income taxes (1,078 ) standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows at december 31, 2007 $ 3,010 note 18. benefit plans pension plans the company has several non-contributory defined benefit plans for eligible employees. the benefits for certain plans which cover salaried employees and certain union employees are based on formulas which include, among others, years of service and average pay. the benefits for one plan which covers union workers under various union contracts and certain salaried employees are based on years of service multiplied by a stated amount. benefits for another plan are determined annually based on a specified percentage of annual earnings (based on the participant's age) and a specified interest rate (which is established annually for all participants) applied to accrued balances. the company's funding policy is to make contributions in accordance with applicable governmental regulatory requirements. other postretirement benefit plans the company has several postretirement benefit plans covering eligible employees and retirees. participants generally become eligible after reaching age 55 with required years of service. actual requirements for coverage vary by plan. benefits for retirees who were covered by bargaining units vary by each unit and contract. benefits for certain retirees are in the form of a company health care account. benefits for retirees reaching age 65 are generally integrated with medicare. other retirees, based on plan provisions, must use medicare as their primary coverage, with the company reimbursing a portion of the unpaid amount; or are reimbursed for the medicare part b premium or have no company coverage. the benefits provided by the company are basically health and, for certain retirees, life insurance type benefits. the company funds certain of these benefit plans and accrues postretirement benefits during the active service of those employees who would become eligible for such benefits when they retire. the company uses december 31 as the measurement date for its plans. weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: pension benefits other postretirement benefits december 31 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 discount rate 6.0% 5.7% 5.6% 6.0% 5.7% 5.5% rate of compensation increase 4.0% to 7.0% 4.0% to 7.0% 4.0% to 7.0% 201 notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. benefit plans (continued) weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost: pension benefits other postretirement benefits year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 discount rate 5.7% 5.6% 5.9% 5.6% 5.5% 5.9% expected long term rate of return on plan assets 7.0% to 8.0% 7.0% to 8.0% 7.0% to 8.0% rate of compensation increase 4.0% to 7.0% 4.0% to 7.0% 4.0% to 7.0% the long term rate of return for plan assets is determined based on widely-accepted capital market principles, long term return analysis for global fixed income and equity markets as well as the active total return oriented portfolio management style. long term trends are evaluated relative to market factors such as inflation, interest rates and fiscal and monetary policies, in order to assess the capital market assumptions as applied to the plan. consideration of diversification needs and rebalancing is maintained. assumed health care cost trend rates: december 31 2007 2006 2005 health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 4.0% to 10.0% 4.0% to 10.5% 4.0% to 11.0% rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (the ultimate trend rate) 4.0% to 5.0% 4.0% to 5.0% 4.0% to 5.0% year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2008-2017 2007-2018 2006-2018 assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. a one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects: one percentage point increase decrease (in millions) effect on total of service and interest cost $ 1 $ (3 ) effect on postretirement benefit obligation 17 (22 ) net periodic benefit cost components: pension benefits other postretirement benefits year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) service cost $ 49 $ 53 $ 53 $ 7 $ 9 $ 11 interest cost 214 210 210 25 27 30 expected return on plan assets (257 ) (242 ) (234 ) (4 ) (4 ) (5 ) amortization of unrecognized net loss 15 33 28 3 5 5 amortization of unrecognized prior service cost 7 8 8 (26 ) (32 ) (28 ) special termination benefit 4 6 2 settlement loss 4 curtailment loss 3 regulatory asset (increase) decrease (2 ) (4 ) 6 7 net periodic benefit cost $ 34 $ 64 $ 65 $ 11 $ 17 $ 13 202 notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. benefit plans (continued) additional information: pension benefits other postretirement benefits 2007 2006 2007 2006 (in millions) increase (decrease) in minimum liability included in accumulated other comprehensive income (prior to adoption of sfas no. 158) $ (137 ) change recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income $ (11 ) 356 $ (146 ) $ (124 ) total increase (decrease) $ (11 ) $ 219 $ (146 ) $ (124 ) the following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations: pension benefits other postretirement benefits 2007 2006 2007 2006 (in millions) change in benefit obligation: benefit obligation at january 1 $ 3,861 $ 3,842 $ 468 $ 565 service cost 49 53 7 9 interest cost 214 210 25 27 plan participants' contributions 13 15 amendments (5 ) 8 (75 ) actuarial (gain) loss (104 ) (59 ) (26 ) (34 ) benefits paid from plan assets (214 ) (219 ) (43 ) (45 ) curtailment 2 3 special termination benefit 16 2 foreign exchange (1 ) 8 1 settlement (58 ) benefit obligation at december 31 3,742 3,861 444 468 change in plan assets: fair value of plan assets at january 1 3,426 3,200 80 79 actual return on plan assets 270 342 6 6 company contributions 49 105 28 25 plan participants' contributions 13 15 benefits paid from plan assets (214 ) (219 ) (43 ) (45 ) settlement (58 ) foreign exchange 4 (2 ) fair value of plan assets at december 31 3,477 3,426 84 80 funded status $ (265 ) $ (435 ) $ (360 ) $ (388 ) amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of: other assets $ 101 $ 89 $ 27 $ 18 other liabilities (366 ) (524 ) (387 ) (406 ) net amount recognized $ (265 ) $ (435 ) $ (360 ) $ (388 ) amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, not yet recognized in net periodic benefit cost: net transition asset $ (1 ) $ (1 ) prior service cost (credit) 25 36 $ (192 ) $ (219 ) costs recoverable from customers 16 net actuarial loss 411 558 46 79 net amount recognized $ 435 $ 593 $ (146 ) $ (124 ) 203 notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. benefit plans (continued) information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets: december 31 2007 2006 (in millions) projected benefit obligation $ 834 $ 3,134 accumulated benefit obligation 727 2,921 fair value of plan assets 637 2,162 the company employs a total return approach whereby a mix of equities and fixed income investments are used to maximize the long term return of plan assets for a prudent level of risk. the intent of this strategy is to minimize plan expenses by outperforming plan liabilities over the long run. risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of the plan liabilities, plan funded status and corporate financial conditions. the investment portfolio contains a diversified blend of u.s. and non-u.s. fixed income and equity investments. alternative investments, including hedge funds, are used judiciously to enhance risk adjusted long term returns while improving portfolio diversification. derivatives may be used to gain market exposure in an efficient and timely manner. investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through annual liability measurements, periodic asset/liability studies and quarterly investment portfolio reviews. the company's pension plan and other postretirement benefit weighted-average asset allocation at december 31, 2007 and 2006, by asset category are as follows: percentage of percentage of other postretirement benefits pension plan assets plan assets december 31 2007 2006 2007 2006 asset category: equity securities 20.5 % 25.6 % debt securities 32.1 48.1 100.0 % 100.0 % limited partnerships 23.2 18.2 commingled funds 4.2 3.2 short term investments and other 20.0 4.9 total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % the table below presents the estimated amounts to be recognized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost during 2008. pension benefits postretirement benefits (in millions) amortization of net actuarial loss $ 3 $ 1 amortization of prior service cost (benefit) 5 (8 ) total estimated amounts to be recognized $ 8 $ (7 ) the table below presents the estimated future minimum benefit payments at december 31, 2007. less pension postretirement medicare expected future benefit payments benefits benefits subsidy net 2008 $ 239 $ 35 $ 2 $ 33 2009 233 35 2 33 2010 235 36 2 34 2011 239 38 2 36 2012 247 38 2 36 thereafter 1,344 194 8 186 $ 2,537 $ 376 $ 18 $ 358 204 notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. benefit plans (continued) in 2008, it is expected that contributions of $40 million will be made to pension plans and $28 million to postretirement healthcare and life insurance benefit plans. savings plans the company and its subsidiaries have several contributory savings plans which allow employees to make regular contributions based upon a percentage of their salaries. matching contributions are made up to specified percentages of employees' contributions. the contributions by the company and its subsidiaries to these plans amounted to $72 million, $72 million and $40 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. stock option plans in 2005, shareholders approved the amended and restated loews corporation 2000 stock option plan (the loews plan ). the aggregate number of shares of loews common stock for which options or stock appreciation rights ( sars ) may be granted under the loews plan is 12,000,000 shares, and the maximum number of shares of loews common stock with respect to which options or sars may be granted to any individual in any calendar year is 1,200,000 shares. the exercise price per share may not be less than the fair value of the common stock on the date of grant. generally, options and sars vest ratably over a four-year period and expire in ten years. a summary of the stock option and sar transactions for the loews plan follows: 2007 2006 weighted weighted average average number of exercise number of exercise awards price awards price awards outstanding, january 1 4,110,442 $ 23.124 3,856,974 $ 19.340 granted 959,250 46.397 945,300 35.205 exercised (270,641 ) 17.562 (597,300 ) 17.802 canceled (12,010 ) 30.132 (94,532 ) 23.158 awards outstanding, december 31 4,787,041 28.085 4,110,442 23.124 awards exercisable, december 31 2,600,032 $ 20.839 2,023,065 $ 18.361 shares available for grant, december 31 5,051,751 5,998,991 the following table summarizes information about the company's stock options and sars outstanding in connection with the loews plan at december 31, 2007: awards outstanding awards exercisable weighted average weighted weighted remaining average average number of contractual exercise number of exercise range of exercise prices shares life price shares price $ 10.00-19.99 1,870,480 4.5 $ 16.747 1,727,064 $ 16.576 20.00-29.99 802,287 6.8 23.659 442,975 23.356 30.00-39.99 1,145,274 7.9 34.247 377,493 33.722 40.00-49.99 729,375 9.1 44.800 42,000 46.265 50.00-55.00 239,625 9.1 51.080 10,500 51.080 in 2007, the company awarded sars totaling 959,250 shares. in accordance with the loews plan, the company has the ability to settle sars in shares or cash and has the intention to settle in shares. the sars balance at december 31, 2007 was 1,874,924 shares. 205 notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. benefit plans (continued) the weighted average remaining contractual terms of awards outstanding and exercisable as of december 31, 2007, were 6.6 years and 5.4 years. the aggregate intrinsic values of awards outstanding and exercisable at december 31, 2007 were $107 million and $77 million. the total intrinsic value of awards exercised during 2007 was $8 million. the company recorded stock-based compensation expense of $8 million related to the loews plan for the year ended december 31, 2007. the related income tax benefits recognized were $3 million. at december 31, 2007, the compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized was $16 million, and the weighted average period over which it is expected to be recognized is 2.6 years. in february of 2002, shareholders approved the carolina group 2002 stock option plan (the carolina group plan ) in connection with the issuance of carolina group stock. the aggregate number of shares of carolina group stock for which options or sars may be granted under the carolina group plan is 1,500,000 shares, and the maximum number of shares of carolina group stock with respect to which options or sars may be granted to any individual in any calendar year is 200,000 shares. the exercise price per share may not be less than the fair value of the stock on the date of the grant. generally, options and sars vest ratably over a four-year period and expire in ten years. a summary of the stock option and sar transactions for the carolina group plan follows: 2007 2006 weighted weighted average average number of exercise number of exercise awards price awards price awards outstanding, january 1 581,694 $ 36.237 536,572 $ 28.526 granted 200,500 74.633 202,000 50.234 exercised (150,366 ) 30.677 (134,128 ) 27.008 canceled (3,500 ) 44.183 (22,750 ) 33.045 awards outstanding, december 31 628,328 49.776 581,694 36.237 awards exercisable, december 31 136,304 32.506 97,684 $ 27.695 shares available for grant, december 31 360,500 557,500 the following table summarizes information about the company's stock options and sars outstanding in connection with the carolina group plan at december 31, 2007: awards outstanding awards exercisable weighted average weighted weighted remaining average average number of contractual exercise number of exercise range of exercise prices shares life price shares price $ 20.00 34.99 221,074 6.3 $ 28.382 99,687 $ 26.878 35.00 49.99 119,502 7.8 44.981 22,371 44.220 50.00 64.99 137,752 8.4 57.620 14,246 53.495 65.00 80.78 150,000 9.0 77.923 206 notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. benefit plans (continued) during 2007, the company awarded sars totaling 200,500 shares. in accordance with the carolina group plan, the company has the ability to settle sars in shares or cash and has the intention to settle in shares. the sars balance at december 31, 2007 was 375,504 shares. the weighted average remaining contractual term of awards outstanding and exercisable as of december 31, 2006, was 7.7 years and 6.4 years. the aggregate intrinsic value of awards outstanding and exercisable at december 31, 2007 was $22 million and $7 million. the total intrinsic value of awards exercised during the year ended december 31, 2007 was $6 million. the company recorded stock-based compensation expense of $2 million related to the carolina group plan during 2007. the related income tax benefits recognized were $1 million. at december 31, 2007, the compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized was $4 million, and the weighted average period over which it is expected to be recognized is 2.6 years. the fair value of granted options and sars for the loews plan and carolina group plan were estimated at the grant date using the black-scholes pricing model with the following assumptions and results: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 loews plan: expected dividend yield 0.5 % 0.6 % 0.8 % expected volatility 24.0 % 23.9 % 19.6 % weighted average risk-free interest rate 4.6 % 4.7 % 3.9 % expected holding period (in years) 5.0 5.0 5.0 weighted average fair value of awards $ 13.45 $ 10.02 $ 6.39 carolina group plan: expected dividend yield 2.5 % 3.6 % 5.4 % expected volatility 23.3 % 31.4 % 31.2 % weighted average risk-free interest rate 4.6 % 4.7 % 3.9 % expected holding period (in years) 5.0 5.0 5.0 weighted average fair value of awards $ 16.68 $ 12.28 $ 6.57 note 19. reinsurance cna cedes insurance to reinsurers to limit its maximum loss, provide greater diversification of risk, minimize exposures on larger risks and to exit certain lines of business. the ceding of insurance does not discharge the primary liability of cna. therefore, a credit exposure exists with respect to property and casualty and life reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations or to the extent that the reinsurer disputes the liabilities assumed under reinsurance agreements. property and casualty reinsurance coverages are tailored to the specific risk characteristics of each product line and cna's retained amount varies by type of coverage. reinsurance contracts are purchased to protect specific lines of business such as property and workers' compensation. corporate catastrophe reinsurance is also purchased for property and workers' compensation exposure. most reinsurance contracts are purchased on an excess of loss basis. cna also utilizes facultative reinsurance in certain lines. in addition, cna assumes reinsurance as a member of various reinsurance pools and associations. reinsurance accounting allows for contractual cash flows to be reflected as premiums and losses, as compared to deposit accounting, which requires cash flows to be reflected as assets and liabilities. to qualify for reinsurance accounting, reinsurance agreements must include risk transfer. to meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance contract must include both insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk, and a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. reinsurance contracts that include both significant risk sharing provisions, such as adjustments to premiums or loss coverage based on loss experience, and relatively low policy limits as evidenced by a high proportion of maximum premium assessments to loss limits, may require considerable judgment to determine whether or not risk transfer requirements are met. for such contracts, often referred to as finite products, cna assesses risk transfer for each contract generally by developing quantitative analyses at 207 notes to consolidated financial statements n ote 19. reinsurance (continued) contract inception which measure the present value of reinsurer losses as compared to the present value of the related premium. in 2003, the company discontinued purchases of such contracts. the following table summarizes the amounts receivable from reinsurers at december 31, 2007 and 2006. december 31 2007 2006 (in millions) reinsurance receivables related to insurance reserves: ceded claim and claim adjustment expense $ 7,056 $ 8,191 ceded future policy benefits 987 1,050 ceded policyholders' funds 43 48 reinsurance receivables related to paid losses 603 658 reinsurance receivables 8,689 9,947 allowance for uncollectible reinsurance (461 ) (469 ) reinsurance receivables, net of allowance for uncollectible reinsurance $ 8,228 $ 9,478 cna has established an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance receivables. the provision for uncollectible reinsurance was $1 million, $23 million and $35 million for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. cna attempts to mitigate its credit risk related to reinsurance by entering into reinsurance arrangements with reinsurers that have credit ratings above certain levels and by obtaining collateral. the primary methods of obtaining collateral are through reinsurance trusts, letters of credit and funds withheld balances. such collateral was approximately $2.4 billion and $2.6 billion at december 31, 2007 and 2006. on a more limited basis, cna may enter into reinsurance agreements with reinsurers that are not rated. cna's largest recoverables from a single reinsurer at december 31, 2007, including prepaid reinsurance premiums, were approximately $1.5 billion from subsidiaries of swiss re group, $886 million from subsidiaries of munich re group, $834 million from subsidiaries of hartford insurance group, $357 million from allstate insurance group, and $333 million from associated accident &amp; health reinsurance underwriters. the effects of reinsurance on earned premiums for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are shown in the following table: assumed/ direct assumed ceded net net % (in millions) year ended december 31, 2007 property and casualty $ 9,097 $ 118 $ 2,349 $ 6,866 1.7 % accident and health 660 76 119 617 12.3 life 76 75 1 earned premiums $ 9,833 $ 194 $ 2,543 $ 7,484 2.6 % year ended december 31, 2006 property and casualty $ 9,125 $ 120 $ 2,283 $ 6,962 1.7 % accident and health 718 59 138 639 9.2 life 100 98 2 earned premiums $ 9,943 $ 179 $ 2,519 $ 7,603 2.4 % year ended december 31, 2005 property and casualty $ 10,354 $ 186 $ 3,675 $ 6,865 2.7 % accident and health 1,040 60 400 700 8.6 life 140 136 4 earned premiums $ 11,534 $ 246 $ 4,211 $ 7,569 3.3 % 208 notes to consolidated financial statements note 19. reinsurance (continued) included in the direct and ceded earned premiums for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are $1.6 billion, $1.5 billion and $3.3 billion related to property and casualty business that is 100% reinsured as a result of business dispositions and a significant captive program. life and accident and health premiums are primarily from long duration contracts; property and casualty premiums are primarily from short duration contracts. insurance claims and policyholders' benefits reported in the consolidated statements of income are net of reinsurance recoveries of $1.4 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. the impact of reinsurance on life insurance inforce at december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is shown in the following table: december 31 direct assumed ceded net (in millions) 2007 $ 14,089 $ 1 $ 14,071 $ 19 2006 15,652 1 15,633 20 2005 20,548 1 20,528 21 as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, cna has ceded $1.8 billion and $2.0 billion of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, future policyholder benefits and policyholder funds as a result of business operations sold in prior years. subject to certain exceptions, the purchasers assumed the credit risk of the sold business that was primarily reinsured to other carriers. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, the assumed credit risk was $49 million. commutations in 2001, cna entered into a one-year corporate aggregate reinsurance treaty related to the 2001 accident year covering substantially all property and casualty lines of business in the continental casualty company pool (the ccc cover ). the ccc cover was fully utilized in 2003 and interest charges accrued on the related funds held balance at 8.0% per annum. in 2006, cna commuted the ccc cover. this commutation had no impact on the consolidated statements of income for the year ended december 31, 2006. also, in 2006, cna commuted several reinsurance treaties, including several finite treaties, with a european reinsurance group. this commutation resulted in a pretax loss, net of allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, of $48 million. cna received $35 million of cash in connection with this significant commutation. in 2005, cna entered into several significant commutation agreements, including the commutation of the aggregate cover, which was a corporate aggregate reinsurance treaty related to the 1999 through 2001 accident years and covered substantially all of cna's property and casualty lines of business. these commutations resulted in an unfavorable pretax impact of $399 million and cna received $446 million of cash in connection with these significant commutations. funds withheld reinsurance arrangements cna's overall reinsurance program has included certain property and casualty contracts, such as the commuted ccc and aggregate covers, that were entered into and accounted for on a funds withheld basis and which were deemed to be finite reinsurance. under the funds withheld basis, cna recorded the cash remitted to the reinsurer for the reinsurer's margin, or cost of the reinsurance contract, as ceded premiums. the remainder of the premiums ceded under the reinsurance contract not remitted in cash were recorded as funds withheld liabilities. cna was required to increase the funds withheld balance at stated interest crediting rates applied to the funds withheld balance or as otherwise specified under the terms of the contract. the funds withheld liability was reduced by any cumulative claim payments made by cna in excess of cna's retention under the reinsurance contract. if the funds withheld liability was exhausted, interest crediting would cease and additional claim payments would have been 209 notes to consolidated financial statements note 19. reinsurance (continued) recoverable from the reinsurer. the funds withheld liability was recorded in reinsurance balances payable on the consolidated balance sheets. interest cost on reinsurance contracts accounted for on a funds withheld basis was incurred during all periods in which a funds withheld liability existed and was included in net investment income. there were no amounts subject to such interest crediting at december 31, 2007 or 2006. as of december 31, 2007 there were no ceded reinsurance treaties inforce that cna considers to be finite reinsurance. the remaining treaty at december 31, 2006 was fully utilized in 2006 and formally commuted as of september 1, 2007 with no impact to cna. in 2003, cna discontinued purchases of such contracts. the following table summarizes the pretax impact of contracts accounted for on a funds withheld basis for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005, including the commuted aggregate and ccc covers discussed above. aggregate year ended december 31, 2006 cover ccc cover all other total (in millions) ceded earned premium $ (11 ) $ (11 ) ceded claim and claim adjustment expense (113 ) (113 ) ceding commissions interest charges $ (40 ) (19 ) (59 ) pretax expense $ $ (40 ) $ (143 ) $ (183 ) year ended december 31, 2005 ceded earned premium $ (17 ) $ 48 $ 31 ceded claim and claim adjustment expense (244 ) (154 ) (398 ) ceding commissions (27 ) (27 ) interest charges (57 ) $ (66 ) (34 ) (157 ) pretax expense $ (318 ) $ (66 ) $ (167 ) $ (551 ) included in all other above for the year ended december 31, 2006 is $110 million of unfavorable development resulting from a commutation, which is included in the ceded claim and claim adjustment expenses above. this unfavorable development was partially offset by the release of previously established allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, resulting in an unfavorable impact of $48 million. included in all other above for the year ended december 31, 2005, is approximately $24 million of pretax expense which resulted from an unfavorable arbitration ruling on two reinsurance treaties impacting ceded earned premiums, ceded claim and claim adjustment expenses, ceding commissions and interest charges. this unfavorable outcome was partially offset by a release of previously established reinsurance bad debt reserves resulting in a net impact from the arbitration ruling of $10 million pretax expense for the year ended december 31, 2005. there was no pretax impact by operating segment of cna's funds withheld reinsurance arrangements for the year ended december 31, 2007. the pretax impact by operating segment for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: year ended december 31 2006 2005 (in millions) standard lines $ (152 ) $ (328 ) specialty lines (7 ) (112 ) other insurance (24 ) (111 ) pretax expense $ (183 ) $ (551 ) 210 notes to consolidated financial statements note 20. quarterly financial data (unaudited) 2007 quarter ended dec. 31 sept. 30 june 30 march 31 (in millions, except per share data) total revenues $ 4,567 $ 4,603 $ 4,597 $ 4,613 income attributable to: loews common stock: income from continuing operations 377 406 520 645 per share-basic 0.71 0.76 0.96 1.19 per share-diluted 0.71 0.76 0.96 1.19 discontinued operations, net 7 3 (7 ) 5 per share-basic 0.01 0.01 (0.01 ) 0.01 per share-diluted 0.01 0.01 (0.01 ) 0.01 net income (a) 384 409 513 650 per share-basic 0.72 0.77 0.95 1.20 per share-diluted 0.72 0.77 0.95 1.20 carolina group stock: net income (b) 128 146 141 118 per share-basic 1.18 1.34 1.31 1.09 per share-diluted 1.18 1.34 1.30 1.08 2006 quarter ended total revenues $ 4,811 $ 4,458 $ 4,233 $ 4,200 income attributable to: loews common stock: income from continuing operations 626 509 476 475 per share-basic 1.14 0.92 0.86 0.85 per share-diluted 1.14 0.92 0.85 0.85 discontinued operations, net (17 ) 8 (2 ) per share-basic (0.03 ) 0.02 per share-diluted (0.03 ) 0.02 net income (a) 609 517 476 473 per share-basic 1.11 0.94 0.86 0.85 per share-diluted 1.11 0.94 0.85 0.85 carolina group stock: net income (b) 137 118 93 68 per share-basic 1.27 1.17 1.09 0.86 per share-diluted 1.26 1.17 1.09 0.86 (a) net income attributable to loews common stock for the fourth quarter of 2007 includes net investment losses of $53 (after tax and minority interest) compared to net investment gains of $96 (after tax and minority interest) in the fourth quarter of 2006 primarily due to other-than-temporary impairment losses of $167 (after tax and minority interest) at cna. (b) net income attributable to carolina group stock for the fourth quarter of 2007 includes a $46 charge, after taxes, related to litigation. 211 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings insurance related california long term care litigation shaffer v. continental casualty company , et al ., u.s. district court, central district of california, cv06-2235 rgk, is a class action on behalf of certain california individual long term health care policyholders, alleging that continental casualty company ( ccc ) and cna knowingly or negligently used unrealistic actuarial assumptions in pricing these policies, which according to plaintiff, would inevitably necessitate premium increases. on january 8, 2008, ccc, cna and the plaintiffs entered into a binding agreement settling the case on a nationwide basis for the policy forms potentially affected by the allegations of the complaint. under the settlement agreement, ccc will provide certain enhanced benefits to eligible class members including certain non-forfeiture benefits, opportunities to exchange policies and free health screenings. the agreement, which is subject to notice to the class as well as court approval, did not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, cash flows or results of operations of the company. insurance brokerage antitrust litigation on august 1, 2005, cna and several of its insurance subsidiaries were joined as defendants, along with other insurers and brokers, in multidistrict litigation pending in the united states district court for the district of new jersey, in re insurance brokerage antitrust litigation, civil no. 04-5184 (fsh). the plaintiffs in this litigation allege improprieties in the payment of contingent commissions to brokers and bid rigging in connection with the sale of various lines of insurance. the plaintiffs further allege the existence of a conspiracy and assert claims for federal and state antitrust law violations, for violations of the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations ( rico ) act and for recovery under various state common law theories. on april 5, 2007, the court dismissed the plaintiffs' complaint, but granted the plaintiffs an opportunity to amend their complaint. on may 22, 2007, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, and on june 21, 2007, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss this amended complaint. on august 31, 2007, the court dismissed the federal antitrust claims of the complaint. on september 28, 2007, the court dismissed the federal rico claims, which were the sole remaining federal claims of the complaint, and, after declining to exercise supplemental jurisdiction over the state law claims, dismissed the complaint in its entirety. on october 10, 2007, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal from the foregoing orders to the third circuit court of appeals. cna believes it has meritorious defenses to this action and intends to defend the case vigorously. the extent of losses beyond any amounts that may be accrued are not readily determinable at this time. however, based on facts and circumstances presently known, in the opinion of management, an unfavorable outcome will not materially affect the equity of the company, although results of operations may be adversely affected. global crossing limited litigation ccc has been named as a defendant in an action brought by the bankruptcy estate of global crossing limited ( global crossing ) in the united states bankruptcy court for the southern district of new york. in the complaint, plaintiff seeks unspecified monetary damages from ccc and the other defendants for alleged fraudulent transfers and alleged breaches of fiduciary duties arising from actions taken by global crossing while ccc was a shareholder of global crossing. on august 3, 2006, the court granted in part and denied in part ccc's motion to dismiss the estate representative's amended complaint. the case is now in discovery. ccc believes it has meritorious defenses to the remaining claims in this action and intends to defend the case vigorously. the extent of losses beyond any amounts that may be accrued are not readily determinable at this time. however, based on facts and circumstances presently known, in the opinion of management, an unfavorable outcome will not materially affect the equity of the company, although results of operations may be adversely affected. 212 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings (continued) a&amp;e reserves cna is also a party to litigation and claims related to a&amp;e cases arising in the ordinary course of business. see note 9 for further discussion. tobacco related tobacco related product liability litigation approximately 4,775 product liability cases are pending against cigarette manufacturers in the united states. lorillard is a defendant in approximately 3,775 of these cases. approximately 1,050 of these lawsuits are engle progeny cases, described below, in which the claims of approximately 3,000 individual plaintiffs are asserted. the pending product liability cases are composed of the following types of cases: conventional product liability cases are brought by individuals who allege cancer or other health effects caused by smoking cigarettes, by using smokeless tobacco products, by addiction to tobacco, or by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. approximately 215 cases are pending against the tobacco industry, including approximately 55 cases against lorillard. west virginia individual personal injury cases are brought by individuals who allege cancer or other health effects caused by smoking cigarettes, by using smokeless tobacco products, or by addiction to cigarette smoking. the cases are pending in a single west virginia court and have been consolidated for trial. defendants have petitioned the u.s. supreme court to review the order that will govern the trial. lorillard is a defendant in approximately 55 of the 730 pending cases that are part of this proceeding. the court has stayed activity in the proceeding, including the start of a trial, until a petition pending before the u.s. supreme court, in a case in which lorillard is not a defendant, is resolved. flight attendant cases are brought by non-smoking flight attendants alleging injury from exposure to environmental smoke in the cabins of aircraft. plaintiffs in these cases may not seek punitive damages for injuries that arose prior to january 15, 1997. lorillard is a defendant in each of the approximately 2,625 pending flight attendant cases. class action cases are purported to be brought on behalf of large numbers of individuals for damages allegedly caused by smoking. ten of these cases are pending against lorillard. in schwab v. philip morris usa, inc., et al. , a class action case pending against lorillard, the court has certified a nationwide class composed of purchasers of light cigarettes. lorillard is not a defendant in approximately 25 additional lights class actions that are pending against other cigarette manufacturers. one of the cases pending against lorillard, engle , was certified as a class action prior to trial. following trial, the class was ordered decertified by the florida supreme court, which allowed the class members to proceed with individual cases. approximately 1,050 of these engle progeny cases have been filed in which the claims of approximately 3,000 individual plaintiffs are asserted. reimbursement cases are brought by or on behalf of entities who seek reimbursement of expenses incurred in providing health care to individuals who allegedly were injured by smoking. plaintiffs in these cases have included the u.s. federal government, u.s. state and local governments, foreign governmental entities, hospitals or hospital districts, american indian tribes, labor unions, private companies and private citizens. three such cases are pending against lorillard and other cigarette manufacturers in the united states and one such case is pending in israel. included in this category is the suit filed by the federal government, united states of america v. philip morris usa, inc., et al., that sought disgorgement of profits and injunctive relief. during 2005, an appellate court ruled that the government may not seek disgorgement of profits. during august 2006, the trial court issued its verdict and granted injunctive relief. the verdict did not award monetary damages. see reimbursement cases below. 213 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings (continued) loews is a defendant in four pending product liability cases. one of these is a reimbursement case in israel, while the three other cases are on file in u.s. courts. one of the cases pending against loews in the u.s. is a conventional product liability case, while the two other suits are purported class action cases. lorillard also is a defendant in each of the four product liability cases in which loews is a party. in addition to the above, filter cases are brought by individuals, including former employees of lorillard, who seek damages resulting from their alleged exposure to asbestos fibers that were incorporated into filter material used in one brand of cigarettes manufactured by lorillard for a limited period of time ending more than 50 years ago. lorillard is a defendant in approximately 30 such cases. plaintiffs assert a broad range of legal theories in these cases, including, among others, theories of negligence, fraud, misrepresentation, strict liability, breach of warranty, enterprise liability (including claims asserted under the federal racketeering influenced and corrupt organizations act ( rico )), civil conspiracy, intentional infliction of harm, injunctive relief, indemnity, restitution, unjust enrichment, public nuisance, claims based on antitrust laws and state consumer protection acts, and claims based on failure to warn of the harmful or addictive nature of tobacco products. plaintiffs in most of the cases seek unspecified amounts of compensatory damages and punitive damages, although some seek damages ranging into the billions of dollars. plaintiffs in some of the cases seek treble damages, statutory damages, disgorgement of profits, equitable and injunctive relief, and medical monitoring, among other damages. conventional product liability cases approximately 215 cases are pending against the tobacco industry in the united states. lorillard is a defendant in approximately 55 of these cases. since january 1, 2006, verdicts have been returned in five cases. lorillard was not a defendant in any of these trials. defense verdicts were returned in four of the five trials, while juries found in favor of the plaintiffs and awarded damages in the remaining case. the defendants are pursuing an appeal in this matter. in rulings addressing cases tried in earlier years, some appellate courts have reversed verdicts returned in favor of the plaintiffs while other judgments that awarded damages to smokers have been affirmed on appeal. manufacturers have exhausted their appeals and have been required to pay damages to plaintiffs in nine individual cases in recent years. punitive damages were paid to the smokers in three of the nine cases. lorillard was not a party to these nine matters. lorillard is a defendant in two cases that are scheduled for trial in 2008. the trial dates are subject to change. west virginia individual personal injury cases approximately 730 cases are pending in a single west virginia court in a consolidated proceeding known as west virginia individual personal injury cases. lorillard is a defendant in approximately 55 of the 730 cases. the proceeding has been governed by the court's trial plan. defendants have sought review of the trial plan by the u.s. supreme court. the court has stayed activity in the proceeding, including the start of a trial, until a petition pending before the u.s. supreme court in a case in which lorillard is not a defendant is resolved. during the third quarter of 2006 and the fourth quarter of 2007, lorillard was dismissed from approximately 825 of the cases because those plaintiffs had not submitted evidence that they had smoked a lorillard product. these dismissals are not final and it is possible some or all of these dismissals could be contested in subsequent appeals noticed by the plaintiffs. flight attendant cases approximately 2,625 flight attendant cases are pending. lorillard and three other cigarette manufacturers are the defendants in each of these matters. these suits were filed as a result of a settlement agreement by the parties, including lorillard, in broin v. philip morris companies, inc., et al. (circuit court, miami-dade county, florida, filed october 31, 1991), a class action brought on behalf of flight attendants claiming injury as a result of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. the settlement agreement, among other things, permitted the plaintiff class members to file these individual suits. these individuals may not seek punitive damages for injuries that arose prior to january 15, 1997. 214 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings (continued) the judges that have presided over the cases that have been tried have relied upon an order entered during october 2000 by the circuit court of miami-dade county, florida. the october 2000 order has been construed by these judges as holding that the flight attendants are not required to prove the substantive liability elements of their claims for negligence, strict liability and breach of implied warranty in order to recover damages. the court further ruled that the trials of these suits are to address whether the plaintiffs' alleged injuries were caused by their exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and, if so, the amount of damages to be awarded. lorillard has been a defendant in each of the eight flight attendant cases in which verdicts have been returned. defendants have prevailed in seven of the eight trials. in the single trial decided for the plaintiff, the jury awarded $6 million in damages. the court, however, reduced this award to $500,000. this verdict, as reduced by the trial court, was affirmed on appeal and the defendants have paid the award. lorillard's share of the judgment in this matter, including interest, was approximately $60,000. in addition, lorillard has paid its share of the attorneys' fees, costs and interest awarded to the plaintiff's counsel in this matter. in one of the seven cases in which a defense verdict was returned, the court granted plaintiff's motion for a new trial and, following appeal, the case has been returned to the trial court for a second trial that has been scheduled for 2008. the six remaining cases in which defense verdicts were returned are concluded. a trial date is scheduled in one of the flight attendant cases. trial dates are subject to change. class action cases lorillard is a defendant in ten pending cases. in most of the pending cases, plaintiffs seek class certification on behalf of groups of cigarette smokers, or the estates of deceased cigarette smokers, who reside in the state in which the case was filed. one of the cases in which lorillard is a defendant, schwab v. philip morris usa, inc., et al. , is a purported national class action on behalf of purchasers of light cigarettes in which plaintiffs' claims are based on defendants' alleged rico violations. lorillard is not a defendant in approximately 25 additional class action cases in which plaintiffs assert claims on behalf of smokers or purchasers of light cigarettes. cigarette manufacturers, including lorillard, have defeated motions for class certification in a total of 35 cases, 13 of which were in state court and 22 of which were in federal court. motions for class certification have also been ruled upon in some of the lights cases or in other class actions to which lorillard was not a party. in some of these cases, courts have denied class certification to the plaintiffs, while classes have been certified in other matters. the engle case during 2006, the florida supreme court issued rulings in the case of engle v. r.j. reynolds tobacco co., et al. (circuit court, miami-dade county, florida, filed may 5, 1994) that affirmed the 2003 holding of an intermediate appellate court vacating the $145.0 billion punitive damages award, including approximately $16.3 billion against lorillard. prior to trial, engle was certified as a class action on behalf of florida residents, and survivors of florida residents, who were injured or died from medical conditions allegedly caused by addiction to smoking. the florida supreme court determined that the case could not proceed further as a class action and ordered decertification of the class. during february of 2008, the trial court entered an order on remand from the florida supreme court that formally decertified the class. the florida supreme court's 2006 decision also reinstated awards of actual damages to two of the three individuals whose claims were heard during the second phase of the engle trial. these awards totaled approximately $3 million to one smoker and $4 million to the second, and bear interest at the rate of 10.0% per year. both individuals have informed the court that they will not seek punitive damages. these verdicts were paid during february 2008. the lorillard payment was approximately $3 million for the verdicts and the interest that accrued since november 2000. during october 2007, the u.s. supreme court denied defendants' petition for review of the florida supreme court's holdings that permit members of the engle class to rely upon the jury's first-phase verdict. the supreme court subsequently rejected defendants' petition for rehearing, and engle has been returned to the trial court. the engle agreement florida enacted legislation during the engle trial that limited the amount of an appellate bond required to be posted in order to stay execution of a judgment for punitive damages in a certified class action. while lorillard believed this legislation was valid and that any challenges to the possible application or constitutionality of this legislation by the engle class would fail, lorillard entered into an agreement with the 215 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings (continued) plaintiffs during may 2001 in which it contributed $200 million to a fund held for the benefit of the engle class members (the engle agreement ). as a result, the class agreed to a stay of execution with respect to lorillard on its punitive damages judgment until appellate review was completed, including any review by the u.s. supreme court. final appellate review was completed in november 2007. the $200 million will continue to be maintained for the benefit of the members of the engle class, with the court to determine how that fund will be allocated consistent with state rules of procedure. the engle agreement contained certain additional restrictions that no longer remain in force now that final appellate review has been completed. engle progeny cases plaintiffs are individuals who allege they or their decedents are members of the class that was decertified in engle . a 2006 ruling by the florida supreme court that ordered decertification of the class also permitted class members to file individual actions, including claims for punitive damages. the court further held that these individuals are entitled to rely on a number of the jury's findings in favor of the plaintiffs in the first phase of the engle trial. lorillard was a defendant in approximately 1,050 cases filed by individuals who allege they were members of the engle class. the claims of approximately 3,000 class members are asserted in these 1,050 cases because some suits are on behalf of multiple purported class members. these cases are pending in various florida courts. the period for filing these cases expired during january 2008, but florida law permits plaintiffs 120 days after a suit is initiated to effect service. as a result, the full number of engle progeny cases is not yet known. one of these matters pending against lorillard is set for trial in 2008. trial dates are subject to change. the scott case another class action pending against lorillard is scott v. the american tobacco company, et al. (district court, orleans parish, louisiana, filed may 24, 1996). during 1997, the court certified a class composed of certain cigarette smokers resident in the state of louisiana who desire to participate in medical monitoring or smoking cessation programs and who began smoking prior to september 1, 1988, or who began smoking prior to may 24, 1996 and allege that defendants undermined compliance with the warnings on cigarette packages. trial in scott was heard in two phases. in its july 2003 phase i verdict, the jury rejected medical monitoring, the primary relief requested by plaintiffs, and returned sufficient findings in favor of the class to proceed to a phase ii trial on plaintiffs' request for a state-wide smoking cessation program. during june 2004, the jury awarded approximately $591 million to fund cessation programs for louisiana smokers. the court subsequently awarded prejudgment interest. during february 2007, the louisiana court of appeal reduced the amount of the award by approximately $328 million; struck the award of prejudgment interest, which totaled approximately $440 million as of december 31, 2006; and limited class membership to individuals who began smoking by september 1, 1988, and whose claims accrued by september 1, 1988. the louisiana court of appeal has returned the case to the trial court, for further proceedings. during january 2008, the louisiana supreme court denied plaintiffs' and defendants' separate petitions for review. lorillard's share of any judgment has not been determined. it is possible that post-judgment interest could be assessed on any award to the class that survives appeal. in the fourth quarter of 2007, lorillard recorded a pretax provision of approximately $66 million for this matter. the parties filed a stipulation in the trial court agreeing that an article of louisiana law required that the amount of the bond for the appeal be set at $50 million for all defendants collectively. the parties further agreed that the plaintiffs have full reservations of rights to contest in the trial court the sufficiency of the bond on any grounds. the trial court entered an order setting the amount of the bond at $50 million for all defendants. defendants collectively posted a surety bond in that amount, of which lorillard secured 25%, or $13 million. while lorillard believes the limitation on the appeal bond amount is valid as required by louisiana law, in the event of a successful challenge the amount of the appeal bond could be set as high as 150% of the judgment and judicial interest combined. if such an event occurred, lorillard's share of the appeal bond has not been determined. other class action cases two additional cases are pending against lorillard in which motions for class certification were granted. in one of them, brown v. the american tobacco company, inc., et al. (superior court, san diego county, california, filed june 10, 1997), a california court granted defendants' motion to decertify the class. the class decertification order has been affirmed on appeal, but the california supreme court has agreed to hear the case. the class originally certified in brown was composed of residents of california who smoked at least 216 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings (continued) one of defendants' cigarettes between june 10, 1993 and april 23, 2001 and who were exposed to defendants' marketing and advertising activities in california. in the second case, daniels v. philip morris, incorporated, et al. (superior court, san diego county, california, filed august 2, 1998), the court granted defendants' motion for summary judgment during 2002 and dismissed the case. both the california court of appeal and the california supreme court have affirmed daniels' dismissal. plaintiffs have petitioned the u.s. supreme court to review daniels, but the court has not determined whether it will hear the case. prior to granting defendants' motion for summary judgment, the court had certified a class composed of california residents who, while minors, smoked at least one cigarette between april of 1994 and december 31, 1999 and were exposed to defendants' marketing and advertising activities in california. it is possible that either or both of these class certification rulings could be reinstated as a result of the pending appeals. as discussed above, other cigarette manufacturers are defendants in approximately 25 cases in which plaintiffs' claims are based on the allegedly fraudulent marketing of lights or ultra-lights cigarettes. classes have been certified in some of these matters. in one of the pending lights cases, good v. altria group, inc., et al. , the u.s. supreme court announced during january 2008 that it will consider whether federal law bars plaintiffs from challenging statements authorized by the federal trade commission about tar and nicotine yields that have been made in cigarette advertisements. the schwab case lorillard is a defendant in one lights class action, schwab v. philip morris usa, inc., et al. (u.s. district court, eastern district, new york, filed may 11, 2004). plaintiffs in schwab base their claims on defendants' alleged violations of the rico statute in the manufacture, marketing and sale of lights cigarettes. plaintiffs have estimated damages to the class in the hundreds of billions of dollars. any damages awarded to the plaintiffs based on defendants' violation of the rico statute would be trebled. during september 2006, the court granted plaintiffs' motion for class certification and certified a nationwide class action on behalf of purchasers of light cigarettes. during july 2007, the second circuit court of appeals heard defendants' appeal of the class certification ruling. the court of appeals has prohibited activity before the trial court until the appeal is concluded. reimbursement cases lorillard is a defendant in the three reimbursement cases that are pending in the u.s. and it has been named as a party to the case in israel. u.s. federal government action during august 2006, the u.s. district court for the district of columbia issued its final judgment and remedial order in the federal government's reimbursement suit ( united states of america v. philip morris usa, inc., et al. , u.s. district court, district of columbia, filed september 22, 1999). the verdict concluded a bench trial that began in september 2004. lorillard, other cigarette manufacturers, two parent companies and two trade associations are defendants in this action. in its 2006 verdict, the court determined that the defendants, including lorillard, violated certain provisions of the rico statute, that there was a likelihood of present and future rico violations, and that equitable relief was warranted. the government was not awarded monetary damages. the equitable relief included permanent injunctions that prohibit the defendants, including lorillard, from engaging in any act of racketeering, as defined under rico; from making any material false or deceptive statements concerning cigarettes; from making any express or implied statement about health on cigarette packaging or promotional materials (these prohibitions include a ban on using such descriptors as low tar, light, ultra-light, mild, or natural ); and from making any statements that low tar, light, ultra-light, mild, or natural or low-nicotine cigarettes may result in a reduced risk of disease. the final judgment and remedial order also requires the defendants, including lorillard, to make corrective statements on their websites, in certain media, in point-of-sale advertisements, and on cigarette package onserts concerning: the health effects of smoking; the addictiveness of smoking; that there are no significant health benefits to be gained by smoking low tar, light, ultra-light, mild, or natural cigarettes; that cigarette design has been manipulated to ensure optimum nicotine delivery to smokers; and that there are adverse effects from exposure to secondhand smoke. if the final judgment and remedial order are not modified or vacated on appeal, the costs to lorillard for compliance could exceed $10 million. defendants have appealed to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit which has stayed the judgment and remedial order while the appeal is proceeding. the government also has noticed an appeal from the final judgment. while trial was underway, the district of columbia court of appeals ruled that plaintiff may not seek disgorgement of profits, but this appeal was interlocutory in nature and could be reconsidered in the present appeal. prior to trial, the government had estimated that it was entitled to approximately $280.0 billion from the defendants for its disgorgement of profits 217 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings (continued) claim. in addition, the government sought during trial more than $10.0 billion for the creation of nationwide smoking cessation, public education and counter-marketing programs. in its 2006 verdict, the trial court declined to award such relief. it is possible that these claims could be reinstated on appeal. settlement of state reimbursement litigation on november 23, 1998, lorillard and the other original participating manufacturers entered into the msa with 46 states, the district of columbia, the commonwealth of puerto rico, guam, the u.s. virgin islands, american samoa and the commonwealth of the northern mariana islands to settle the asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and certain other claims of those states. these settling entities are generally referred to as the settling states. the original participating manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by mississippi, florida, texas and minnesota, which together with the msa are referred to in this information statement as the state settlement agreements. the state settlement agreements provide that the agreements are not admissions, concessions or evidence of any liability or wrongdoing on the part of any party, and were entered into by the original participating manufacturers to avoid the further expense, inconvenience, burden and uncertainty of litigation. lorillard recorded pretax charges of $1,048 million, $911 million and $876 million ($680 million, $560 million and $538 million after taxes) for 2007, 2006 and 2005, to accrue its obligations under the state settlement agreements. lorillard's portion of ongoing adjusted payments and legal fees is based on its share of domestic cigarette shipments in the year preceding that in which the payment is due. accordingly, lorillard records its portions of ongoing settlement payments as part of cost of manufactured products sold as the related sales occur. the state settlement agreements require that the domestic tobacco industry make annual payments of $9.4 billion, subject to adjustment for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume. in addition, the domestic tobacco industry is required to pay settling plaintiffs' attorneys' fees, subject to an annual cap of $500 million, as well as an additional amount of up to $125 million in each year through 2008. these payment obligations are the several and not joint obligations of each settling defendant. the state settlement agreements also include provisions relating to significant advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to tobacco control and underage use laws, and other provisions. lorillard and the other original participating manufacturers have notified the states that they intend to seek an adjustment in the amount of payments made in 2003 pursuant to a provision in the msa that permits such adjustment if the companies can prove that the msa was a significant factor in their loss of market share to companies not participating in the msa and that the states failed to diligently enforce certain statutes passed in connection with the msa. if the original participating manufacturers are ultimately successful, any adjustment would be reflected as a credit against future payments by the original participating manufacturers under the agreement. from time to time, lawsuits have been brought against lorillard and the other participating manufacturers, or against one or more of the states, challenging the validity of the msa on certain grounds, including as a violation of the antitrust laws. lorillard is a defendant in one such case, which has been dismissed by the trial court but has been appealed by the plaintiffs. lorillard understands that additional such cases are proceeding against other defendants. in addition, in connection with the msa, the original participating manufacturers entered into an agreement to establish a $5.2 billion trust fund payable between 1999 and 2010 to compensate the tobacco growing communities in 14 states (the trust ). payments to the trust will no longer be required as a result of an assessment imposed under a new federal law repealing the federal supply management program for tobacco growers, although the states of maryland and pennsylvania are contending that payments under the trust should continue to growers in those states since the new federal law did not cover them, and the matter is being litigated. in 2005 other litigation was resolved over the trust's obligation to return payments made by the original participating manufacturers in 2004 or withheld from payment to the trust for the fourth quarter of 2004, when the north carolina supreme court ruled that such payments were due to the trust. lorillard's share of payments into the trust in 2004 was approximately $30 million and its share of the payment due for the last quarter of that year was approximately $10 million. under the new law, enacted in october of 2004, tobacco quota holders and growers will be compensated with payments totaling $10.1 billion, funded by an assessment on tobacco manufacturers and importers. payments to qualifying tobacco quota holders and growers commenced in 2005. 218 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings (continued) lorillard believes that the state settlement agreements will materially adversely affect its cash flows and operating income in future years. the degree of the adverse impact will depend, among other things, on the rates of decline in domestic cigarette sales in the premium price and discount price segments, lorillard's share of the domestic premium price and discount price cigarette segments, and the effect of any resulting cost advantage of manufacturers not subject to significant payment obligations under the state settlement agreements. filter cases in addition to the above, claims have been brought against lorillard by individuals who seek damages resulting from their alleged exposure to asbestos fibers that were incorporated into filter material used in one brand of cigarettes manufactured by lorillard for a limited period of time ending more than 50 years ago. approximately 30 such matters are pending against lorillard. since january 1, 2006, lorillard has paid, or has reached agreement to pay, a total of approximately $9 million in payments of judgments and settlements to finally resolve approximately 40 claims. no such cases have been tried since january 1, 2006. trial dates are scheduled in some of the pending cases. trial dates are subject to change. other tobacco related antitrust cases indirect purchaser suits approximately 30 antitrust suits were filed on behalf of putative classes of consumers in various state courts against lorillard and its major competitors. the suits all alleged that the defendants entered into agreements to fix the wholesale prices of cigarettes in violation of state antitrust laws which permit indirect purchasers, such as retailers and consumers, to sue under price fixing or consumer fraud statutes. more than 20 states permit such suits. lorillard was a defendant in all but one of these indirect purchaser cases. three indirect purchaser suits, in new york, florida and michigan, were dismissed by courts in their entirety and the plaintiffs withdrew their appeals. the actions in all other states except for new mexico and kansas, have been voluntarily dismissed. in the kansas case, the district court of seward county certified a class of kansas indirect purchasers in 2002. the parties are in the process of litigating certain privilege issues. on july 14, 2006, the court issued an order confirming that fact discovery is closed, with the exception of privilege issues that the court determines, based on a special master's report, justify further limited fact discovery. on october 29, 2007 the court denied all of the defendants' privilege claims, and the defendants have filed a mandamus petition before the kansas supreme court, which currently is considering the petition. expert discovery, as necessary, will take place later this year. no date has as yet been set by the court for dispositive motions and trial. a decision granting class certification in new mexico was affirmed by the new mexico court of appeals on february 8, 2005. as ordered by the court, class notice was sent out on october 30, 2005. the new mexico plaintiffs were permitted to rely on discovery produced in the kansas case. on june 30, 2006, the new mexico court granted summary judgment to all defendants, and the suit was dismissed. an appeal was filed by the plaintiffs on august 14, 2006, and has not yet been heard. msa antitrust suits lorillard and the other major cigarette manufacturers, along with the attorney general of the state of california, have been sued by a consumer purchaser of cigarettes in a putative class action alleging violations of the sherman act and california state antitrust and unfair competition laws (sanders v. lockyer, et al., u.s. district court, northern district of california, filed june 9, 2004). the plaintiff seeks treble damages of an unstated amount for the putative class as well as declaratory and injunctive relief. all claims are based on the assertion that the master settlement agreement together with certain implementing legislation enacted by the state of california, constitute unlawful restraints of trade. on march 28, 2005 the defendants' motion to dismiss the suit was granted. plaintiff appealed the dismissal to the court of appeals for the ninth circuit. argument was heard on february 15, 2007, and the court of appeals issued an opinion on september 26, 2007 affirming dismissal of the suit. on january 25, plaintiff filed a petition seeking certiorari from the u.s. supreme court. other msa related cases have been filed and are still pending in federal and state courts challenging the msa under federal antitrust statutes and state antitrust and unfair competition laws. lorillard is not named as a defendant in these other cases, but in some cases state attorneys general and other cigarette manufacturers are named as defendants, and the result in these cases could affect the viability of the msa or some of its provisions. 219 notes to consolidated financial statements note 21. legal proceedings (continued) defenses lorillard believes that it has valid defenses to the cases pending against it. lorillard also believes it has valid bases for appeal should any adverse verdicts be returned against it. to the extent the company is a defendant in any of the lawsuits described in this section, the company believes that it is not a proper defendant in these matters and has moved or plans to move for dismissal of all such claims against it. while lorillard intends to defend vigorously all tobacco products liability litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of any of this litigation. litigation is subject to many uncertainties. plaintiffs have prevailed in several cases, as noted above. it is possible that one or more of the pending actions could be decided unfavorably as to lorillard or the other defendants. lorillard may enter into discussions in an attempt to settle particular cases if it believes it is appropriate to do so. lorillard cannot predict the outcome of pending litigation. some plaintiffs have been awarded damages from cigarette manufacturers at trial. while some of these awards have been overturned or reduced, other damages awards have been paid after the manufacturers have exhausted their appeals. these awards and other litigation activities against cigarette manufacturers continue to receive media attention. in addition, health issues related to tobacco products also continue to receive media attention. it is possible, for example, that the 2006 verdict in united states of america v. philip morris usa, inc., et al. , which made many adverse findings regarding the conduct of the defendants, including lorillard, could form the basis of allegations by other plaintiffs or additional judicial findings against cigarette manufacturers. the 2006 decision by the florida supreme court in engle has led to the filing of many additional new cases against cigarette manufacturers, including lorillard. these events could have an adverse affect on the ability of lorillard to prevail in smoking and health litigation and could influence the filing of new suits against lorillard. lorillard also cannot predict the type or extent of litigation that could be brought against it and other cigarette manufacturers in the future. except for the impact of the state settlement agreements and scott as described above, management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of material pending litigation and, therefore, no material provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements for any unfavorable outcome. it is possible that lorillard's results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. other litigation the company and its subsidiaries are also parties to other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. the outcome of this other litigation will not, in the opinion of management, materially affect the company's results of operations or equity. note 22. commitments and contingencies guarantees in the course of selling business entities and assets to third parties, cna has agreed to indemnify purchasers for losses arising out of breaches of representation and warranties with respect to the business entities or assets being sold, including, in certain cases, losses arising from undisclosed liabilities or certain named litigation. such indemnification provisions generally survive for periods ranging from nine months following the applicable closing date to the expiration of the relevant statutes of limitation. as of december 31, 2007, the aggregate amount of quantifiable indemnification agreements in effect for sales of business entities, assets and third party loans was $873 million. in addition, cna has agreed to provide indemnification to third party purchasers for certain losses associated with sold business entities or assets that are not limited by a contractual monetary amount. as of december 31, 2007, cna had outstanding unlimited indemnifications in connection with the sales of certain of its business entities or assets that included tax liabilities arising prior to a purchaser's ownership of an entity or asset, defects in title at the time of sale, employee claims arising prior to closing and in some cases losses arising from certain litigation and undisclosed liabilities. these indemnification agreements survive until the applicable statutes of limitation expire, or 220 notes to consolidated financial statements note 22. commitments and contingencies (continued) until the agreed upon contract terms expire. as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, cna has recorded $27 million and $28 million of liabilities related to these indemnification agreements. in connection with the issuance of preferred securities by cna surety capital trust i, cna surety, a 62% owned and consolidated subsidiary of cna, issued a guarantee of $75 million to guarantee the payment by cna surety capital trust i of annual dividends of $2 million over 30 years and redemption of $30 million of preferred securities. cna surety cna surety has provided significant surety bond protection for a large national contractor that undertakes projects for the construction of government and private facilities, a substantial portion of which have been reinsured by ccc. in order to help this contractor meet its liquidity needs and complete projects which had been bonded by cna surety, commencing in 2003 cna provided loans to the contractor through a credit facility. due to reduced operating cash flow at the contractor these loans were fully impaired through realized investment losses in 2005. the company, through a participation agreement with cna, has funded and owns an interest in the credit facility. for the year ended december 31, 2005, the company recorded a pretax impairment charge of $47 million. cna no longer provides additional liquidity to the contractor and has not recognized interest income related to the loans since june 30, 2005. in addition to the impairment of loans outstanding under the credit facility, cna determined that the contractor would likely be unable to meet its obligations under the surety bonds. accordingly, during 2005, cna surety established $110 million of surety loss reserves in anticipation of future loss payments, $50 million of which was ceded to ccc under the reinsurance agreements discussed below. further deterioration of the contractor's operating cash flow could result in higher loss estimates and trigger additional reserve actions. if any such reserve additions were required, ccc would incur the unfavorable net prior year development through the reinsurance arrangements. during the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, cna surety paid $3 million, $34 million and $26 million related to surety losses of the contractor. cna surety may provide surety bonds on a limited basis on behalf of the contractor to support its revised restructuring plan, subject to the contractor's compliance with cna surety's underwriting standards and ongoing management of cna surety's exposure in relation to the contractor. all surety bonds written for the contractor are issued by ccc and its affiliates, other than cna surety, and are subject to underlying reinsurance treaties pursuant to which all bonds written on behalf of cna surety are 100% reinsured to one of cna surety's insurance subsidiaries. ccc provides reinsurance protection to cna surety for losses in excess of an aggregate of $60 million associated with the contractor. this treaty provides coverage for the life of bonds either in force or written from january 1, 2005 to december 31, 2005. ccc and cna surety agreed by addendum to extend this contract through december 31, 2008. cna has also guaranteed or provided collateral for the contractor's letters of credit and certain specified insurance policies. as of december 31, 2007 these guarantees and collateral obligations aggregated $9 million. ccc provided an excess of loss reinsurance contract to the insurance subsidiaries of cna surety over a period that expired on december 31, 2000 (the stop loss contract ). the stop loss contract limits the net loss ratios for cna surety with respect to certain accounts and lines of insurance business. in the event that cna surety's accident year net loss ratio exceeds 24.0% for 1997 through 2000 (the contractual loss ratio ), the stop loss contract requires ccc to pay amounts equal to the amount, if any, by which cna surety's actual accident year net loss ratio exceeds the contractual loss ratio multiplied by the applicable net earned premiums. the minority shareholders of cna surety do not share in any losses that apply to this contract. diamond offshore construction projects as of december 31, 2007, diamond offshore had purchase obligations aggregating approximately $200 million related to the major upgrade of one rig and construction of two new jack-up rigs, as described in note 8. diamond 221 notes to consolidated financial statements note 22. commitments and contingencies (continued) offshore expects to complete funding of these projects in 2008. however, the actual timing of these expenditures will vary based on the completion of various construction milestones, which are beyond diamond offshore's control. highmount volumetric production payment transactions as part of the acquisition of exploration and production assets from dominion, highmount assumed an obligation to deliver approximately 15 bcf of natural gas through february 2009 under previously existing vpp agreements. under these agreements, certain highmount acquired properties are subject to fixed-term overriding royalty interests which had been conveyed to the vpp purchaser. while highmount is obligated under the agreement to produce and deliver to the purchaser its portion of future natural gas production from the properties, highmount retains control of the properties and rights to future development drilling. if production from the properties subject to the vpp is inadequate to deliver the natural gas provided for in the vpp, highmount has no obligation to make up the shortfall. at december 31, 2007, the remaining obligation under these agreements is approximately 10.9 bcf of natural gas. pipeline expansion projects as discussed in note 8, boardwalk pipeline is engaged in several major expansion projects that will require the investment of significant capital resources. these projects are subject to ferc approval. as of december 31, 2007, boardwalk pipeline had purchase commitments of $851 million primarily related to its expansion projects. note 23. discontinued operations cna has discontinued operations, which consist of run-off insurance and reinsurance operations acquired in its merger with the continental corporation in 1995. as of december 31, 2007, the remaining run-off business is administered by continental reinsurance corporation international, ltd., a bermuda subsidiary. the business consists of facultative property and casualty, treaty excess casualty and treaty pro-rata reinsurance with underlying exposure to a diverse, multi-line domestic and international book of business encompassing property, casualty, and marine liabilities. effective october 4, 2007, the company entered into an agreement to sell bulova to citizen watch co., ltd. for approximately $250 million, subject to adjustment, in january of 2008. the company estimates that it will record a pretax gain of approximately $105 million due to this transaction. results of discontinued operations were as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) revenues: net investment income $ 14 $ 18 $ 16 manufactured products 207 207 185 investment gains (losses) 6 (2 ) 7 other 1 1 1 total 228 224 209 expenses: insurance related benefits (expenses) 25 51 (1 ) cost of manufactured products sold 101 102 88 other operating expenses 87 83 79 total 213 236 166 income (loss) before income taxes and minority interest 15 (12 ) 43 income tax expense (8 ) (2 ) (10 ) minority interest 1 3 (2 ) net income (loss) from discontinued operations $ 8 $ (11 ) $ 31 222 notes to consolidated financial statements note 23. discontinued operations (continued) on may 4, 2007, cna sold continental management services limited, its united kingdom discontinued operations subsidiary. in anticipation of the 2007 sale, the company recorded an impairment loss of $26 million, after tax and minority interest, in 2006. after closing the transaction in 2007, the loss was reduced by approximately $4 million. the assets and liabilities sold were $239 million and $157 million at december 31, 2006. net loss for the business through the date of the sale in 2007 was $1 million. excluding the impairment loss recorded in 2006, net income (loss) for the business was $(1) million and $12 million for the years ended december 31, 2006 and 2005. cna's subsidiary, the continental corporation, provided a guarantee for a portion of the liabilities related to certain marine products. the sale agreement included provisions that significantly limit cna's exposure related to this guarantee. net assets of cna's discontinued operations, totaling $23 million and $68 million as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, are included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. total assets and liabilities of bulova's discontinued operations, totaling $218 million and $50 million as of december 31, 2007 and $226 million and $52 million as of december 31, 2006, are included in other assets and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as follows: december 31 2007 2006 (in millions) assets: investments $ 205 $ 336 cash 18 56 receivables 85 91 reinsurance receivables 1 33 property, plant and equipment 11 11 deferred income taxes 17 15 goodwill and other intangible assets 5 5 other assets 73 72 total assets $ 415 $ 619 liabilities: insurance reserves $ 172 $ 308 other liabilities 52 69 total liabilities $ 224 $ 377 in 2007, cna transferred an investment portfolio comprised of fixed maturity securities of $22 million, short term investments of $14 million and cash of $4 million from its continuing operations to its discontinued operations. cna's accounting and reporting for discontinued operations is in accordance with apb no. 30, reporting the results of operations reporting the effects of disposal of a segment of a business, and extraordinary, unusual and infrequently occurring events and transactions. at december 31, 2007 and 2006, the insurance reserves are net of discount of $73 million and $94 million. the income (loss) from discontinued operations reported above primarily represents the net investment income, realized investment gains and losses, foreign currency gains and losses, effects of the accretion of the loss reserve discount and re-estimation of the ultimate claim and claim adjustment expense of the discontinued operations. note 24. business segments the company's reportable segments are primarily based on its individual operating subsidiaries. each of the principal operating subsidiaries are headed by a chief executive officer who is responsible for the operation of its business and has the duties and authority commensurate with that position. investment gains (losses) and the related income taxes, excluding those of cna financial, are included in the corporate and other segment. cna's core property and casualty commercial insurance operations are reported in two business segments: standard lines and specialty lines. as a result of cna's realignment of management responsibilities in the fourth quarter of 2007, cna has revised its property and casualty segments. standard lines includes standard property and 223 notes to consolidated financial statements note 24. business segments (continued) casualty coverages sold to small businesses and middle market entities and organizations in the u.s. primarily through an independent agency distribution system. standard lines also includes commercial insurance and risk management products sold to large corporations in the u.s. primarily through insurance brokers. specialty lines provides a broad array of professional, financial and specialty property and casualty products and services, including excess and surplus lines, primarily through insurance brokers and managing general underwriters. specialty lines also includes insurance coverages sold globally through cna's foreign operations ( cna global ). previously, excess and surplus lines and cna global were included in standard lines. the new segment structure reflects the way cna management currently reviews results and makes business decisions. prior period segment disclosures have been conformed to the current year presentation. the non-core operations are managed in life &amp; group non-core segment and other insurance segment. life &amp; group non-core primarily includes the results of the life and group lines of business sold or placed in run-off. other insurance primarily includes the results of certain property and casualty lines of business placed in run-off, including cna re. this segment also includes the results related to the centralized adjusting and settlements of a&amp;e. lorillard is engaged in the production and sale of cigarettes with its principal products marketed under the brand names of newport, kent, true, maverick and old gold with substantially all of its sales in the united states. diamond offshore's business primarily consists of operating 44 offshore drilling rigs that are chartered on a contract basis for fixed terms by companies engaged in exploration and production of hydrocarbons. offshore rigs are mobile units that can be relocated based on market demand. on december 31, 2007, half of these rigs were located in the gulf of mexico region with the remainder operating in brazil, the north sea, and various other foreign markets. highmount's business consists primarily of natural gas exploration and production operations located in the permian basin in texas, the antrim shale in michigan, and the black warrior basin in alabama, with estimated proved reserves totaling approximately 2.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent. boardwalk pipeline is engaged in the interstate transportation and storage of natural gas. this segment consists of two interstate natural gas pipeline systems originating in the gulf coast area and running north and east through texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama, florida, arkansas, tennessee, kentucky, indiana, ohio and illinois with approximately 13,550 miles of pipeline. loews hotels owns and/or operates 18 hotels, 16 of which are in the united states and two are in canada. the corporate and other segment consists primarily of corporate investment income, including investment gains (losses) from non-insurance subsidiaries, equity earnings from shipping operations, as well as corporate interest expenses and other corporate administrative costs. the accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. in addition, cna does not maintain a distinct investment portfolio for each of its insurance segments, and accordingly, allocation of assets to each segment is not performed. therefore, net investment income and investment gains (losses) are allocated based on each segment's carried insurance reserves, as adjusted. 224 notes to consolidated financial statements note 24. business segments (continued) the following tables set forth the company's consolidated revenues, income and assets by business segment: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) revenues (a): cna financial: standard lines $ 4,155 $ 4,513 $ 4,197 specialty lines 4,212 4,153 3,927 life &amp; group non-core 1,220 1,355 1,362 other insurance 299 361 379 total cna financial 9,886 10,382 9,865 lorillard 4,075 3,859 3,637 diamond offshore 2,617 2,102 1,294 highmount 274 boardwalk pipeline 671 618 572 loews hotels 384 371 350 corporate and other 473 370 114 total $ 18,380 $ 17,702 $ 15,832 pretax income (loss) (a) (c): cna financial: standard lines $ 728 $ 726 $ (175 ) specialty lines 902 1,005 572 life &amp; group non-core (351 ) (113 ) (139 ) other insurance (45 ) 49 (79 ) total cna financial 1,234 1,667 179 lorillard (b) 1,380 1,345 1,153 diamond offshore 1,239 960 351 highmount 92 boardwalk pipeline 229 198 158 loews hotels 60 48 50 corporate and other 341 230 (64 ) total $ 4,575 $ 4,448 $ 1,827 net income (loss) (a)(c): cna financial: standard lines $ 449 $ 446 $ (62 ) specialty lines 503 596 350 life &amp; group non-core (174 ) (43 ) (64 ) other insurance (8 ) 43 16 total cna financial 770 1,042 240 lorillard (b) 896 826 708 diamond offshore 396 352 127 highmount 57 boardwalk pipeline 106 103 92 loews hotels 36 29 31 corporate and other 220 150 (17 ) income from continuing operations 2,481 2,502 1,181 discontinued operations 8 (11 ) 31 total $ 2,489 $ 2,491 $ 1,212 225 notes to consolidated financial statements note 24. business segments (continued) (a) investment gains (losses) included in revenues, pretax income (loss) and net income (loss) are as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 revenues and pretax income (loss): cna financial: standard lines $ (149 ) $ 72 $ 30 specialty lines (81 ) 32 4 life &amp; group non-core (56 ) (51 ) (30 ) other insurance (24 ) 39 (11 ) total cna financial (310 ) 92 (7 ) corporate and other 178 9 (6 ) total $ (132 ) $ 101 $ (13 ) net income (loss): cna financial: standard lines $ (87 ) $ 41 $ 18 specialty lines (47 ) 23 2 life &amp; group non-core (33 ) (30 ) (18 ) other insurance (13 ) 29 (9 ) total cna financial (180 ) 63 (7 ) corporate and other 115 6 (4 ) total $ (65 ) $ 69 $ (11 ) (b) includes pretax charges related to the settlement of tobacco litigation of $1,048, $911 and $876 ($680, $560 and $538 after taxes) for the respective periods. (c) income taxes and interest expense are as follows: year ended december 31 2007 2006 2005 income interest income interest income interest taxes expense taxes expense taxes expense cna financial: standard lines $ 223 $ 232 $ (107 ) specialty lines 289 $ 3 300 $ 5 165 $ 5 life &amp; group non-core (155 ) 23 (66 ) 23 (69 ) 24 other insurance (36 ) 114 8 103 (89 ) 95 total cna financial 321 140 474 131 (100 ) 124 lorillard 485 518 445 1 diamond offshore 429 19 285 24 104 42 highmount 46 32 boardwalk pipeline 68 61 65 62 61 60 loews hotels 24 11 19 12 19 11 corporate and other 108 55 81 75 (46 ) 126 total $ 1,481 $ 318 $ 1,442 $ 304 $ 483 $ 364 226 notes to consolidated financial statements note 24. business segments (continued) investments receivables total assets december 31 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 cna financial $ 41,762 $ 44,094 $ 10,672 $ 12,202 $ 56,692 $ 60,239 lorillard 1,290 1,768 208 16 2,600 2,759 diamond offshore 633 815 523 568 4,371 4,170 highmount 25 136 4,412 boardwalk pipeline 316 398 87 87 4,142 2,938 loews hotels 58 10 22 28 499 459 corporate and eliminations 3,839 6,785 29 35 3,363 6,316 total $ 47,923 $ 53,870 $ 11,677 $ 12,936 $ 76,079 $ 76,881 note 25. consolidating financial information the following schedules present the company's consolidating balance sheet information at december 31, 2007 and 2006, and consolidating statements of income information for the years ended december 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. these schedules present the individual subsidiaries of the company and their contribution to the consolidated financial statements. amounts presented will not necessarily be the same as those in the individual financial statements of the company's subsidiaries due to adjustments for purchase accounting, income taxes and minority interests. in addition, many of the company's subsidiaries use a classified balance sheet which also leads to differences in amounts reported for certain line items. this information also does not reflect the impact of the company's issuance of carolina group stock. lorillard is reported as a 100% owned subsidiary and does not include any adjustments relating to the tracking stock structure. see note 6 for consolidating information of the carolina group and loews group. the corporate and other column primarily reflects the parent company's investment in its subsidiaries, invested cash portfolio and corporate long term debt. the elimination adjustments are for intercompany assets and liabilities, interest and dividends, the parent company's investment in capital stocks of subsidiaries, and various reclasses of debit or credit balances to the amounts in consolidation. purchase accounting adjustments have been pushed down to the appropriate subsidiary. 227 notes to consolidated financial statements note 25. consolidating financial information (continued) loews corporation consolidating balance sheet information cna diamond boardwalk loews corporate december 31, 2007 financial lorillard offshore highmount pipeline hotels and other eliminations total (in millions) assets: investments $ 41,762 $ 1,290 $ 633 $ 25 $ 316 $ 58 $ 3,839 $ 47,923 cash 94 1 7 19 1 15 4 141 receivables 10,672 208 523 136 87 22 32 $ (3 ) 11,677 property, plant and equipment 350 207 3,058 3,121 3,303 365 21 10,425 deferred income taxes 1,224 558 3 (786 ) 999 goodwill and other intangible assets 106 20 1,061 163 3 1,353 investments in capital stocks of subsidiaries 14,967 (14,967 ) other assets 847 336 130 47 272 36 257 (1 ) 1,924 deferred acquisition costs of insurance subsidiaries 1,161 1,161 separate account business 476 476 total assets $ 56,692 $ 2,600 $ 4,371 $ 4,412 $ 4,142 $ 499 $ 19,120 $ (15,757 ) $ 76,079 liabilities and shareholders' equity: insurance reserves $ 40,222 $ (1 ) $ 40,221 payable for securities purchased 414 $ 29 $ 101 544 collateral on loaned securities 63 63 short term debt 350 $ 3 $ 5 358 long term debt 1,807 503 1,647 $ 1,848 229 866 6,900 reinsurance balances payable 401 401 deferred income taxes 362 60 45 319 (786 ) other liabilities 2,463 $ 1,587 587 280 561 16 141 (8 ) 5,627 separate account business 476 476 total liabilities 46,196 1,587 1,455 1,956 2,469 295 1,427 (795 ) 54,590 minority interest 1,467 1,425 1,006 3,898 shareholders' equity 9,029 1,013 1,491 2,456 667 204 17,693 (14,962 ) 17,591 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 56,692 $ 2,600 $ 4,371 $ 4,412 $ 4,142 $ 499 $ 19,120 $ (15,757 ) $ 76,079 228 notes to consolidated financial statements note 25. consolidating financial information (continued) loews corporation consolidating balance sheet information cna diamond boardwalk loews corporate december 31, 2006 financial lorillard offshore pipeline hotels and other eliminations total (in millions) assets: investments $ 44,094 $ 1,768 $ 815 $ 398 $ 10 $ 6,785 $ 53,870 cash 84 1 10 1 15 7 118 receivables 12,202 16 568 87 28 37 $ (2 ) 12,936 property, plant and equipment 241 196 2,654 2,024 362 13 5,490 deferred income taxes 885 496 (775 ) 606 goodwill and other intangible assets 106 23 163 2 294 investments in capital stocks of subsidiaries 12,313 (12,313 ) other assets 934 282 100 265 42 251 1,874 deferred acquisition costs of insurance subsidiaries 1,190 1,190 separate account business 503 503 total assets $ 60,239 $ 2,759 $ 4,170 $ 2,938 $ 459 $ 19,406 $ (13,090 ) $ 76,881 liabilities and shareholders' equity: insurance reserves $ 41,080 $ 41,080 payable for securities purchased 320 $ 727 1,047 collateral on loaned securities 2,851 751 3,602 short term debt $ 4 4 long term debt 2,156 $ 964 $ 1,351 232 865 5,568 reinsurance balances payable 539 539 deferred income taxes 439 44 50 242 $ (775 ) other liabilities 2,734 $ 1,464 401 345 4 207 (15 ) 5,140 separate account business 503 503 total liabilities 50,183 1,464 1,804 1,740 290 2,792 (790 ) 57,483 minority interest 1,350 1,061 485 2,896 shareholders' equity 8,706 1,295 1,305 713 169 16,614 (12,300 ) 16,502 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 60,239 $ 2,759 $ 4,170 $ 2,938 $ 459 $ 19,406 $ (13,090 ) $ 76,881 229 notes to consolidated financial statements note 25. consolidating financial information (continued) loews corporation consolidating statement of income information cna diamond boardwalk loews corporate year ended december 31, 2007 financial lorillard offshore highmount pipeline hotels and other eliminations total (in millions) revenues: insurance premiums $ 7,484 $ (2 ) $ 7,482 net investment income 2,433 $ 106 $ 34 $ 21 $ 2 $ 295 2,891 intercompany interest and dividends 1,844 (1,844 ) investment gains (losses) (310 ) 3 2 $ 32 (273 ) (loss) gain on issuance of subsidiary stock (3 ) 144 141 manufactured products 3,969 3,969 contract drilling revenues 2,506 2,506 other 279 77 274 650 382 2 1,664 total 9,886 4,078 2,616 306 671 384 2,285 (1,846 ) 18,380 expenses: insurance claims and policyholders' benefits 6,009 6,009 amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,520 1,520 cost of manufactured products sold 2,307 2,307 contract drilling expenses 1,011 1,011 other operating expenses 983 388 348 150 381 313 79 (2 ) 2,640 interest 140 19 32 61 11 55 318 total 8,652 2,695 1,378 182 442 324 134 (2 ) 13,805 1,234 1,383 1,238 124 229 60 2,151 (1,844 ) 4,575 income tax expense 321 485 429 46 68 24 108 1,481 minority interest 143 415 55 613 total 464 485 844 46 123 24 108 - 2,094 income from continuing operations 770 898 394 78 106 36 2,043 (1,844 ) 2,481 discontinued operations, net (5 ) 13 8 net income $ 765 $ 898 $ 394 $ 78 $ 106 $ 36 $ 2,056 $ (1,844 ) $ 2,489 230 notes to consolidated financial statements note 25. consolidating financial information (continued) loews corporation consolidating statement of income information cna diamond boardwalk loews corporate year ended december 31, 2006 financial lorillard offshore pipeline hotels and other eliminations total (in millions) revenues: insurance premiums $ 7,603 $ 7,603 net investment income 2,412 $ 104 $ 38 $ 4 $ 1 $ 351 2,910 intercompany interest and dividends 1,306 $ (1,306 ) investment gains (losses) 90 (1 ) 3 92 gain on issuance of subsidiary stock 2 7 9 manufactured products 3,755 3,755 contract drilling revenues 1,987 1,987 other 275 77 614 370 10 1,346 total 10,382 3,858 2,102 618 371 1,677 (1,306 ) 17,702 expenses: insurance claims and policyholders' benefits 6,047 6,047 amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,534 1,534 cost of manufactured products sold 2,160 2,160 contract drilling expenses 812 812 other operating expenses 1,016 354 306 358 311 65 2,410 restructuring and other related charges (13 ) (13 ) interest 131 24 62 12 75 304 total 8,715 2,514 1,142 420 323 140 - 13,254 1,667 1,344 960 198 48 1,537 (1,306 ) 4,448 income tax expense 474 518 285 65 19 81 1,442 minority interest 151 323 30 504 total 625 518 608 95 19 81 - 1,946 income from continuing operations 1,042 826 352 103 29 1,456 (1,306 ) 2,502 discontinued operations, net (26 ) 15 (11 ) net income $ 1,016 $ 826 $ 352 $ 103 $ 29 $ 1,471 $ (1,306 ) $ 2,491 231 notes to consolidated financial statements note 25. consolidating financial information (continued) loews corporation consolidating statement of income information cna diamond boardwalk loews corporate year ended december 31, 2005 financial lorillard offshore pipeline hotels and other eliminations total (in millions) revenues: insurance premiums $ 7,569 $ 7,569 net investment income 1,892 $ 63 $ 26 $ 2 $ 6 $ 109 2,098 intercompany interest and dividends 937 $ (937 ) investment gains (losses) (7 ) (2 ) (1 ) (3 ) (13 ) manufactured products 3,568 3,568 contract drilling revenues 1,179 1,179 other 411 6 89 570 344 11 1,431 total 9,865 3,635 1,293 572 350 1,054 (937 ) 15,832 expenses: insurance claims and policyholders' benefits 6,999 6,999 amortization of deferred acquisition costs 1,543 1,543 cost of manufactured products sold 2,114 2,114 contract drilling expenses 639 639 other operating expenses 1,020 369 262 354 289 52 2,346 interest 124 1 42 60 11 126 364 total 9,686 2,484 943 414 300 178 - 14,005 179 1,151 350 158 50 876 (937 ) 1,827 income tax expense (benefit) (100 ) 445 104 61 19 (46 ) 483 minority interest 39 119 5 163 total (61 ) 445 223 66 19 (46 ) - 646 income from continuing operations 240 706 127 92 31 922 (937 ) 1,181 discontinued operations, net 19 12 31 net income $ 259 $ 706 $ 127 $ 92 $ 31 $ 934 $ (937 ) $ 1,212 232 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure. none. item 9a. controls and procedures. disclosure controls and procedures the company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act )) which is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that it files or submits under the federal securities laws, including this report is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a timely basis. these disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the company under the federal securities laws is accumulated and communicated to the company's management on a timely basis to allow decisions regarding required disclosure. the company's principal executive officer ( ceo ) and principal financial officer ( cfo ) undertook an evaluation of the company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in exchange act rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this report. the ceo and cfo have concluded that the company's controls and procedures were effective as of december 31, 2007. internal control over financial reporting pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, and the implementing rules of the securities and exchange commission, the company included a report of management's assessment of the design and effectiveness of its internal controls as part of this annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2007. the independent registered public accounting firm of the company reported on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007. management's report and the independent registered public accounting firm's report are included on pages 70 and 71 under the captions entitled management's report on internal control over financial reporting and report of independent registered public accounting firm and are incorporated herein by reference. there were no other changes in the company's internal control over financial reporting (as defined in rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the exchange act) identified in connection with the foregoing evaluation that occurred during the quarter ended december 31, 2007, that have materially affected or that are reasonably likely to materially affect the company's internal control over financial reporting. item 9b. other information. none. part iii except as set forth below and under executive officers of the registrant in part i of this report, the information called for by part iii (items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) has been omitted as registrant intends to include such information in its definitive proxy statement to be filed with the securities and exchange commission not later than 120 days after the close of its fiscal year. 233 part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules. (a) 1. financial statements: the financial statements above appear underrisk factors. our business faces many risks. we have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the sec or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries before investing in any of their securities. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. 21 table of contents item 1a. risk factors deterioration in the public debt and equity markets could lead to investment losses and lower cash balances at the parent company, which could impair our ability to fund acquisitions, share buybacks, dividends or other investments or to fund capital needed by our subsidiaries. the u.s. and global capital and credit markets experienced severe volatility, illiquidity, uncertainty and disruption in recent years, including among other things, large bankruptcies, government intervention in a number of large financial institutions, growing levels of defaults on indebtedness, recessionary economic conditions and widening of credit spreads. these conditions resulted in significant realized and unrealized losses and substantially reduced investment income, including a significant decline in income from limited partnership investments, at cna and the parent company during 2008. should these or similar conditions recur, we could experience additional losses and further reduced investment income, which would among other things reduce the cash balances available at the parent company. please see md&amp;a under item 7 of this report for additional information on our investments. certain of our operating subsidiaries require substantial amounts of capital or other financial support from time to time to fund expansions, enhance capital, refinance indebtedness, satisfy rating agency or regulatory requirements or for other reasons. sufficient capital to satisfy these needs may not be available to our subsidiaries when needed on acceptable terms from the credit or capital markets or other third parties. in such cases, we have in the past, and may in the future, provide substantial amounts of debt or equity capital to our subsidiaries, which may not be on market terms. any such investments further reduce the amount of cash available at the parent company which might otherwise be used to fund acquisitions, share buybacks, dividends or other investments or to fund other capital requirements of our subsidiaries. in addition, significantly reduced levels of cash at the parent company could make us unable or unwilling to fund future capital needs of our subsidiaries and result in a downgrade of our ratings by the major credit rating agencies. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation (the separation ), which was consummated in june 2008, from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits. we are currently a defendant in three such lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and equity. we do not expect that the separation will alter the legal exposure of either entity with respect to tobacco-related claims. we do not believe that we had or have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims. risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation cna has incurred and may continue to incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from the severe disruption in the capital and credit markets. investment returns are an important part of cna overall profitability. general economic conditions, changes in financial markets such as fluctuations in interest rates, long term periods of low interest rates, credit conditions and currency, commodity and stock prices, including the short and long-term effects of losses in relation to asset-backed securities, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of cna investments and the realization of investment income. further, cna invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater volatility than cna fixed income investments. limited partnership investments generally present greater volatility, higher illiquidity, and greater risk than fixed income investments. as a result of all of these factors, cna may not realize an adequate return on cna investments, may incur losses on sales of its investments, and may be required to write down the value of its investments. therefore, the company results of operations, equity and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors cna underwriting results may continue to suffer as a result of the unfavorable global economic conditions. overall global economic conditions may continue to be recessionary and highly unfavorable. although many lines of cna business have both direct and indirect exposure to these economic conditions, the exposure is especially high for the lines of business that provide management and professional liability insurance, as well as surety bonds, to businesses engaged in real estate, financial services and professional services. as a result, cna has experienced and may continue to experience unanticipated underwriting losses with respect to these lines of business. additionally, global recessionary conditions have led to decreased insured exposures causing cna to experience declines in premium volume. consequently, the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be adversely impacted. cna valuation of investments and impairment of securities requires significant judgment. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, and currency risks, many of which are unpredictable. cna exercises significant judgment in analyzing these risks and in validating fair values provided by third parties for securities in its investment portfolio that are not regularly traded. cna also exercises significant judgment in determining whether the impairment of particular investments is temporary or other-than-temporary. securities with exposure to residential and commercial mortgage and other loan collateral can be particularly sensitive to fairly small changes in actual collateral performance and assumptions as to future collateral performance. during 2008, cna incurred significant unrealized losses in its investment portfolio. during 2009, financial markets were volatile and cna experienced improvement in its unrealized position. in addition, during 2009 and 2008 cna recorded significant other-than-temporary impairment ( otti ) losses primarily in the corporate and other taxable bonds, asset-backed securities and non-redeemable preferred equity securities sectors. due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these types of risks and the resulting judgments, cna may incur further unrealized losses and conclude that further other-than-temporary write downs of cna investments are required. as a result, the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. additional information on cna investment portfolio is included in the md&amp;a under item 7 and notes 3, 4, and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. cna is unable to predict the impact on itself of governmental efforts and policy changes taken and proposed to be taken in response to the unfavorable economic conditions. the federal government has implemented various measures, including the establishment of the troubled assets relief program pursuant to the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008, in an effort to deal with the ongoing economic conditions. in addition, there are numerous proposals for further legislative and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels, particularly with respect to the financial services industry. since these new laws and regulations, or other policy changes, could involve critical matters affecting cna operations, they may have an impact on cna business and its overall financial condition. due to this significant uncertainty, cna is unable to determine whether its actions in response to these governmental efforts will be effective or to predict with any certainty the overall impact these governmental efforts will have on it. as a result, the company results of operations and equity and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. cna is subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations that restrict its ability to do business and generate revenues. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the united states. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders rather than its investors. each state in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which it does business. their regulations relate to, among other things, the following: standards of solvency including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors restrictions on cna ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; limitations on the ability of cna insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to cna; and limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. the states in which cna does business also require cna to provide coverage to persons whom cna would not otherwise consider eligible. each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. any of these regulations could materially adversely affect the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to risk-based capital standards set by state regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of cna statutory capital and surplus reported in cna statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the risk-based capital formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, state regulators may restrict or prohibit it from operating its business. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimates or circumstances or if it incurs significant unrealized losses related to its investment portfolio, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. examples of events leading cna to record a material charge against its earnings include impairment of cna investments or unexpectedly poor claims experience. loews has provided cna with substantial amounts of capital in prior years. loews may be restricted in its ability or willingness to provide additional capital support to cna. as a result, if cna is in need of additional capital, cna may be required to secure this funding from sources other than loews. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, a.m. best company, moody investors service, inc. and standard &amp; poor s. ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. due to the intense competitive environment in which cna operates, the disruption in the capital and credit markets, the uncertainty in determining reserves and the potential for cna to take material unfavorable development in the future, 24 table of contents item 1a. risk factors and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies, the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future. if cna property and casualty insurance financial strength ratings are downgraded below current levels, cna business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets, and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a lowering of the debt ratings of loews by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. cna has entered into several settlement agreements and assumed reinsurance contracts that require collateralization of future payment obligations and assumed reserves if its ratings or other specific criteria fall below certain thresholds. the ratings triggers are generally more than one level below cna current ratings. additional information on cna ratings and ratings triggers is included in the md&amp;a under item 7. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its working capital needs, are limited by state regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments, or dividends that do not require prior approval by subsidiaries domiciliary state departments of insurance and are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by state. the formula for the majority of the states is the greater of 10% of the prior year statutory surplus or the prior year statutory net income, less the aggregate of all dividends paid during the twelve months prior to the date of payment. some states, however, have an additional stipulation that dividends cannot exceed the prior year earned surplus. if cna is restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving inter-company dividends, cna may not be able to fund its working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. if cna determines that its recorded loss reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claims, cna may need to increase its loss reserves. cna maintains loss reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses for reported and unreported claims and for future policy benefits. reserves represent cna best estimate at a given point in time. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by cna, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, expected interest rates, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on cna part. as trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in so-called long tail or long duration coverages, cna is sometimes required to add to its reserves. this is called unfavorable net prior year development and results in a charge to cna earnings in the amount of the added reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. these charges can be substantial. additional information on cna reserves is included in the md&amp;a under item 7 and note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. cna is subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves which can have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and equity. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. examples of emerging or potential claim and coverage issues include: increases in the number and size of claims relating to injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals; 25 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the effects of recessionary economic conditions and financial reporting scandals, which have resulted in an increase in the number and size of claims, due to corporate failures; these claims include both directors and officers ( d&amp;o ) and errors and omissions ( e&amp;o ) insurance claims; class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; construction defect claims, including claims for a broad range of additional insured endorsements on policies; clergy abuse claims, including passage of legislation to reopen or extend various statutes of limitations; and mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to welding rods, benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, cna reviews and change its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. in addition, cna periodically undergoes state regulatory financial examinations, including review and analysis of cna reserves. if estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against cna earnings for the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial and could materially adversely affect the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings. loss reserves for asbestos and environmental pollution are especially difficult to estimate and may result in more frequent and larger additions to these reserves. cna experience has been that establishing reserves for casualty coverages relating to asbestos and environmental pollution (which cna refers to as a&amp;e) claim and claim adjustment expenses are subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported claims are subject to a higher degree of variability due to a number of additional factors including, among others, the following: coverage issues including whether certain costs are covered under the policies and whether policy limits apply; inconsistent court decisions and developing legal theories; continuing aggressive tactics of plaintiffs lawyers; the risks and lack of predictability inherent in major litigation; changes in the frequency of asbestos and environmental pollution claims; changes in the severity of claims including bodily injury claims for malignancies arising out of exposure to asbestos; the impact of the exhaustion of primary limits and the resulting increase in claims on any umbrella or excess policies cna has issued; cna ability to recover reinsurance for these claims; and changes in the legal and legislative environment in which cna operates. as a result of this higher degree of variability, cna has necessarily supplemented traditional actuarial methods and techniques with additional estimating techniques and methodologies, many of which involve significant judgment on its part. consequently, cna may periodically need to record changes in its claim and claim adjustment expense reserves in the future in these areas in amounts that could materially adversely affect the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings. additional information on a&amp;e claims is included in the md&amp;a under item 7 and note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. 26 table of contents item 1a. risk factors asbestos claims . the estimation of reserves for asbestos claims is particularly difficult in light of the factors noted above. in addition, cna ability to estimate the ultimate cost of asbestos claims is further complicated by the following: inconsistency of court decisions and jury attitudes, as well as future court decisions; interpretation of specific policy provisions; allocation of liability among insurers and insureds; missing policies and proof of coverage; the proliferation of bankruptcy proceedings and attendant uncertainties; novel theories asserted by policyholders and their legal counsel; the targeting of a broader range of businesses and entities as defendants; uncertainties in predicting the number of future claims and which other insureds may be targeted in the future; volatility in frequency of claims and severity of settlement demands; increases in the number of non-impaired claimants and the extent to which they can be precluded from making claims; the efforts by insureds to obtain coverage that is not subject to aggregate limits; the long latency period between asbestos exposure and disease manifestation, as well as the resulting potential for involvement of multiple policy periods for individual claims; medical inflation trends; the mix of asbestos-related diseases presented; and the ability to recover reinsurance. in addition, a number of cna insureds have asserted that their claims for insurance are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. if these insureds are successful in this regard, cna potential liability for their claims would be unlimited. some of these insureds contend that their asbestos claims fall within the so-called non-products liability coverage within their policies, rather than the products liability coverage, and that this non-products liability coverage is not subject to any aggregate limit. it is difficult to predict the extent to which these claims will succeed and, as a result, the ultimate size of these claims. environmental pollution claims . the estimation of reserves for environmental pollution claims is complicated by liability and coverage issues arising from these claims. cna and others in the insurance industry are disputing coverage for many such claims. in addition to the coverage issues noted in the asbestos claims section above, key coverage issues in environmental pollution claims include the following: whether cleanup costs are considered damages under the policies (and accordingly whether cna would be liable for these costs); the trigger of coverage and the allocation of liability among triggered policies; the applicability of pollution exclusions and owned property exclusions; the potential for joint and several liability; and 27 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the definition of an occurrence. to date, courts have been inconsistent in their rulings on these issues, thus adding to the uncertainty of the outcome of many of these claims. further, the scope of federal and state statutes and regulations determining liability and insurance coverage for environmental pollution liabilities have been the subject of extensive litigation. in many cases, courts have expanded the scope of coverage and liability for cleanup costs beyond the original intent of cna insurance policies. additionally, the standards for cleanup in environmental pollution matters are unclear, the number of sites potentially subject to cleanup under applicable laws is unknown, and the impact of various proposals to reform existing statutes and regulations is difficult to predict. catastrophe losses are unpredictable. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, severe winter weather, and fires, and their frequency and severity are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of both the total amount of cna insured exposures in the affected areas and the severity of the events themselves. in addition, as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to cna to be finally determined. as cna claim experience develops on a particular catastrophe, cna may be required to adjust its reserves, or take unfavorable development, to reflect its revised estimates of the total cost of claims. cna believes it could incur significant catastrophe losses in the future. therefore, the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. additional information on catastrophe losses is included in the md&amp;a under item 7 and note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. cna key assumptions used to determine reserves and deferred acquisition costs for cna long term care product offerings could vary significantly from actual experience. cna reserves and deferred acquisition costs for its long term care product offerings are based on certain key assumptions including morbidity, which is the frequency and severity of illness, sickness and diseases contracted, policy persistency, which is the percentage of policies remaining in force, interest rates and future health care cost trends. if actual experience differs from these assumptions, the deferred acquisition asset may not be fully realized and the reserves may not be adequate, requiring cna to add to reserves, or take unfavorable development. therefore, the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. cna is unable to predict the impact of federal health care reform legislation. the federal government may be implementing landmark health care reform legislation that could involve critical matters affecting cna operations, particularly cna workers compensation and long term care products. until the legislation is enacted, cna is unable to predict with any certainty the overall impact it will have. as a result, the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings could be materially adversely impacted. cna premium writings and profitability are affected by the availability and cost of reinsurance. cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of its claim and claim adjustment expenses in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of cna business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk 28 table of contents item 1a. risk factors and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. therefore, the company financial results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. additional information on reinsurance is included in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables in its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced deteriorating financial conditions or have been downgraded by rating agencies. a continuation or worsening of the current unfavorable global economic conditions could similarly impact all of cna reinsurers. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if cna is not able to collect the amounts due to it from reinsurers, cna claims expenses will be higher which could materially adversely affect the company results of operations and equity, and cna business, insurer financial strength and debt ratings. additional information on reinsurance is included in note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. worldwide demand for oil and gas, oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic factors significantly affect this level of activity. however, higher or lower commodity demand and prices do not necessarily translate into increased or decreased drilling activity since diamond offshore customers project development time, reserve replacement needs, as well as expectations of future commodity demand and prices all combine to affect demand for diamond offshore rigs. oil and gas prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control, including: worldwide demand for oil and gas; the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; the worldwide economic environment or economic trends, such as recessions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, commonly called opec, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities in the middle east, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; 29 table of contents item 1a. risk factors weather conditions in the united states and elsewhere; the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; development and exploitation of alternative fuels; competition for customers drilling budgets from land-based energy markets around the world; domestic and foreign tax policy; and advances in exploration and development technology. the continuing global financial crisis and worldwide economic downturn has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on diamond offshore business and financial condition. the continuing worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and in some cases has reduced the availability of and/or increased the cost of credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide, and has led to a worldwide economic recession. this deterioration of the worldwide economy has resulted in reduced demand for crude oil and natural gas, exploration and production activity and offshore drilling services that has had a negative impact on our business and financial condition, including declines in dayrates earned by diamond offshore drilling rigs and a decrease in new contract activity, which may continue and may worsen. in addition, the worldwide economic recession has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on diamond offshore customers and/or its suppliers including, among other things, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to diamond offshore. additionally, if a potential customer is unable to obtain an adequate level of credit, it may preclude diamond offshore from doing business with that potential customer. similarly, the restricted credit market could affect lenders participating in diamond offshore credit facility, making them unable to fulfill their commitments and obligations to diamond offshore. any such reductions in drilling activity or failure by diamond offshore customers, suppliers or lenders to meet their contractual obligations to diamond offshore, or diamond offshore inability to secure additional financing, could adversely affect the company financial position, results of operations and cash flows. diamond offshore industry is cyclical. diamond offshore industry has historically been cyclical. there have been periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates, followed by periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such business cycles. periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idle for long periods of time. in response to a contraction in demand for its services, diamond offshore has cold stacked three of its rigs and is in the process of cold stacking a fourth unit. diamond offshore may be required to idle additional rigs or to enter into lower rate contracts. prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. as of february 1, 2010, diamond offshore contract drilling backlog was approximately $8.5 billion for contracted future work extending, in some cases, until 2016. generally, contract backlog only includes future revenue under firm commitments; however, from time to time, diamond offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been executed. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that it will be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond its control or that diamond offshore will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement where one does not currently exist. in addition, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be able to or willing to fulfill their contractual commitments. diamond offshore inability to perform under its contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements or its customers inability to fulfill their contractual commitments may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. 30 table of contents item 1a. risk factors diamond offshore relies heavily on a relatively small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer and/or a dispute that leads to the loss of a customer could have a material adverse impact on its financial results. diamond offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. however, the number of potential customers has decreased in recent years as a result of mergers among the major international oil companies and large independent oil companies. in 2009, diamond offshore five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 41.0% of its consolidated revenues. diamond offshore expects petrobras, which accounted for approximately 15.0% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2009 to continue to be a significant customer in 2010. while it is normal for diamond offshore customer base to change over time as work programs are completed, the loss of any major customer may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. the terms of diamond offshore dayrate drilling contracts may limit its ability to attain profitability in a declining market or to benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market. the duration of offshore drilling contracts is generally determined by customer requirements and, to a lesser extent, the respective management strategies of the offshore drilling contractors. in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors generally prefer longer term contracts, but often at flat or slightly lower dayrates, to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of lower dayrates. conversely, in periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, contractors typically prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly profit from increasing dayrates. in contrast, during these periods customers with reasonably definite drilling programs typically prefer longer term contracts to maintain dayrate prices at a consistent level. an inability to obtain longer term contracts in a declining market or to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market through shorter term contracts may limit diamond offshore profitability. contracts for diamond offshore drilling units are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability of those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling units provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs incurred. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond diamond offshore control. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in diamond offshore operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may be unable to recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers which could adversely affect the company financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. diamond offshore drilling contracts may be terminated due to events beyond its control. diamond offshore customers may terminate some of their drilling contracts if the drilling unit is destroyed or lost or if drilling operations are suspended for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods by tendering contractually specified termination amounts. these termination payments may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. during periods of depressed market conditions, diamond offshore may be subject to an increased risk of its customers seeking to repudiate their contracts. diamond offshore customers ability to perform their obligations under drilling contracts may also be adversely affected by restricted credit markets and the economic downturn. if diamond offshore customers cancel some of their contracts, and diamond offshore is unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if contracts are suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of diamond offshore contracts are renegotiated, it could adversely affect the company financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 31 table of contents item 1a. risk factors diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards and diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of them. diamond offshore operations are subject to the usual hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings and natural disasters such as hurricanes or fires. the occurrence of these events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations and environmental damage. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. in addition, offshore drilling operators are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather, and diamond offshore does not typically retain loss-of-hire insurance policies to cover its rigs. damage to the environment could also result from diamond offshore operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. diamond offshore may also be subject to damage claims by oil and gas companies or other parties. pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. diamond offshore insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover its losses, or may have exclusions of coverage for some losses. diamond offshore does not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks, including, among other things, liability risk for certain amounts of excess coverage and certain physical damage risk. if a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or contractual indemnity, it could adversely affect diamond offshore financial position, results of operations and cash flows. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains or that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will necessarily be financially able to indemnify it against all these risks. in addition, no assurance can be made that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that it will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. diamond offshore is self-insured for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico. because the amount of insurance coverage available has been limited, and the cost for such coverage has increased substantially, diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico. this results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. if one or more named windstorms in the u.s. gulf of mexico cause significant damage to diamond offshore rigs or equipment, it could have a material adverse effect on the company financial position, results of operations or cash flows. a significant portion of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world that may expose it to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; piracy or assaults on property or personnel; kidnapping of personnel; expropriation of property or equipment; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; changing political conditions; foreign and domestic monetary policies; 32 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the inability to repatriate income or capital; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; and changing taxation policies. diamond offshore is subject to the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling units; repatriation of foreign earnings; import - export quotas or other trade barriers; oil and gas exploration and development; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. these practices may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete in those regions. it is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete. the greatest concentration of diamond offshore operating assets outside the united states is brazil, where it has 12 rigs in its fleet either currently working or contracted to work during 2010 offshore brazil. diamond offshore drilling contracts offshore mexico expose it to greater risks than they normally assume. diamond offshore currently operates and expects to continue to operate rigs drilling offshore mexico for pemex - exploracion y produccion ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico. the terms of these contracts expose diamond offshore to greater risks than they normally assume, such as exposure to greater environmental liability. in addition, each contract can be terminated by pemex on 30 days notice, contractually or by statute, subject to certain conditions. while diamond offshore believes that the financial terms of these contracts and its operating safeguards in place mitigate these risks, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a negative impact on its future operations or financial results. 33 table of contents item 1a. risk factors fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore international operations, diamond offshore may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that financial hedging arrangements will effectively hedge any foreign currency fluctuation losses that may arise. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond offshore international limited ( doil ), a wholly owned cayman islands subsidiary. since forming this subsidiary it has been diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of this subsidiary to finance foreign operations. during 2007, doil made a non-recurring distribution to its u.s. parent company, and diamond offshore recognized u.s. federal income tax expense on the portion of the distribution that consisted of earnings of the subsidiary that had not previously been subjected to u.s. federal income tax. notwithstanding the non-recurring distribution made in december of 2007, it remains diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest the future earnings of doil to finance foreign activities, except for the earnings of diamond east asia limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of doil formed in december of 2008. it is diamond offshore intention to repatriate the earnings of diamond east asia limited, and u.s. income taxes will be provided on such earnings. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any future earnings generated by doil, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax or as they relate to diamond east asia limited. should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes. public health threats could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore operations and financial results. public health threats such as outbreaks of highly communicable diseases, which periodically occur in various parts of the world in which diamond offshore operates, could adversely impact its operations, the operations of its customers and the global economy, including the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas and the level of demand for diamond offshore services. any quarantine of personnel or inability to access diamond offshore offices or rigs could adversely affect its operations. travel restrictions or operational problems in any part of the world in which diamond offshore operates, or any reduction in the demand for drilling services caused by public health threats in the future, may have a material adverse effect on the company financial position, results of operations and cash flows. rig conversions, upgrades or new builds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore may undertake to add new capacity through conversions or upgrades to rigs or through new construction. projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; weather interferences; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; customer acceptance delays; 34 table of contents item 1a. risk factors shipyard failures or unavailability; and failure or delay of third party service providers and labor disputes. failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of revenue to diamond offshore. if a drilling contract is terminated under these circumstances, diamond offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract with equally favorable terms. risks related to us and our subsidiary, highmount exploration &amp; production llc highmount may not be able to replace reserves and sustain production at current levels. replacing reserves is risky and uncertain and requires significant capital expenditures. highmount future success depends largely upon its ability to find, develop or acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable. unless highmount replaces the reserves produced through successful development, exploration or acquisition, its proved reserves will decline over time. highmount may not be able to successfully find and produce reserves economically in the future or to acquire proved reserves at acceptable costs. highmount makes a substantial amount of capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of reserves. highmount expects to fund its capital expenditures with cash from its operating activities. if highmount cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund its capital expenditure budget, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available or available at favorable terms to meet those requirements. estimates of natural gas and ngl reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. estimating the volume of proved natural gas and ngl reserves is a complex process and is not an exact science because of numerous uncertainties inherent in the process. the process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. the extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. the process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are mandated by the sec, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. the accuracy of reserve estimates is a function of: the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. actual future production, commodity prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable reserves most likely will vary from highmount estimates. any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and present value of highmount reserves. in addition, highmount may adjust estimates of proved reserves upward or downward to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing commodity prices and prevailing development expenses. the timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of natural gas and ngl properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. in addition, the 10.0% discount factor, which is required by the sec to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate representation of their value. the effective interest rate at various times, and the risks associated with our business, or the oil and gas industry in general, will affect their value relative to the 10.0% discount factor. 35 table of contents item 1a. risk factors if commodity prices decrease, highmount may be required to take additional write-downs of the carrying values of its properties. highmount may be required, under full cost accounting rules, to write down the carrying value of its natural gas and ngl properties if commodity prices decline significantly, or if it makes substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves, or increases its estimates of development costs or experiences deterioration in its exploration results. highmount utilizes the full cost method of accounting for its exploration and development activities. under full cost accounting, highmount is required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. the ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or ceiling, of the book value of highmount natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at the required rate of 10.0%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges, calculated using the average first day of the month price for the preceding 12-month period. if the net book value of highmount exploration and production ( e&amp;p ) properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability) exceeds its ceiling limitation, sec regulations require highmount to impair or write down the book value of its e&amp;p properties. highmount recorded after tax ceiling test impairment charges of $660 million and $440 million in the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008. a write down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas and ngl prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. depending on the magnitude of any future impairment, a ceiling test write down could significantly reduce highmount income, or produce a loss. as ceiling test computations involve the average first day of the month price for the preceding 12-month period, it is impossible to predict the timing and magnitude of any future impairment. additional information on the ceiling test is included in critical accounting estimates included in md&amp;a under item 7 and note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. highmount may incur additional goodwill impairment charges if market conditions deteriorate. highmount evaluates goodwill for impairment annually, or when events or circumstances change, such as an adverse change in business climate, that would indicate an impairment may have occurred. goodwill is deemed to be impaired when the carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value. highmount annual impairment test, which is performed as of april 30th each year, is based on several factors requiring judgment. a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may represent an impairment indicator requiring an assessment for the potential impairment of recorded goodwill. also, a ceiling test impairment may represent a triggering event requiring highmount to perform an interim period goodwill impairment test. should market conditions continue to significantly deteriorate, including further declining commodity prices, highmount could be required to record additional goodwill impairments that may be significant. highmount recorded an after tax goodwill impairment charge of $314 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. please read critical accounting estimates included in md&amp;a under item 7 and note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. natural gas, ngl and other commodity prices are volatile. the commodity price highmount receives for its production heavily influences its revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. highmount is subject to risks due to frequent and often substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. ngl prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. in the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and highmount expects this volatility to continue. the markets and prices for natural gas and ngls depend upon factors beyond highmount control. these factors include demand, which fluctuates with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: the impact of market and basis differentials - market price spreads between two points across highmount natural gas system; the impact of weather on the demand for these commodities; the level of domestic production and imports of these commodities; the impact of changes in technologies on the level of supply; 36 table of contents item 1a. risk factors natural gas storage levels; actions taken by foreign producing nations; the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; the impact of energy conservation efforts; and the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. lower commodity prices may decrease highmount revenues and may reduce the amount of natural gas and ngls that highmount can produce economically. highmount engages in commodity price hedging activities. highmount is exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in commodity prices. the extent of highmount commodity price risk is related to the effectiveness and scope of highmount hedging activities. to the extent highmount hedges its commodity price risk, highmount will forego the benefits it would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in its favor. furthermore, because highmount has entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of the volume of its expected natural gas supply and production of ngls, highmount will continue to have direct commodity price risk on the unhedged portion. highmount actual future supply and production may be significantly higher or lower than highmount estimates at the time it enters into derivative transactions for that period. as a result, highmount hedging activities may not be as effective as highmount intends in reducing the volatility of its cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of cash flows. in addition, even though highmount management monitors its hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement, the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective. drilling for and producing natural gas and ngls is a high risk activity with many uncertainties. highmount future success will depend in part on the success of its exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. highmount e&amp;p activities are subject to numerous risks beyond its control, including the risk that drilling will not result in oil and natural gas production volumes that are commercially viable. highmount decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. highmount cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: lack of acceptable prospective acreage; inadequate capital resources; unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; adverse weather conditions; unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, labor or services; reductions in commodity prices; 37 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the impact of changes in technologies on commodity prices; limitations in the market for natural gas and ngls; title problems; compliance with and the impact of changes in governmental regulations; and mechanical difficulties. highmount business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. highmount is not insured against all risks. losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect highmount business, financial condition or results of operations. highmount e&amp;p activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing natural gas and ngls, including the possibility of: environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater contamination; abnormally pressured formations; mechanical difficulties, such as stuck drilling and service tools and casing collapse; fires and explosions; personal injuries and death; and natural disasters. if any of these events occur, highmount could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties, suspension of highmount operations and repairs to resume operations, any of which could adversely affect its ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses. highmount may elect not to obtain insurance if the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. in addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline needs to obtain and maintain authority from phmsa to operate at higher than normal operating pressures. boardwalk pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers which would utilize the maximum design capacity of its recently completed 42-inch pipeline expansion projects and the fayetteville lateral assuming that boardwalk pipeline operates those pipelines at higher than normal operating pressures (up to 0.80 smys), which increases the pipeline peak-day transmission capacity from that available at normal operating pressures (up to 0.72 smys). in december of 2009, boardwalk pipeline received authority from phmsa to operate its 42-inch pipeline expansion projects at higher than normal operating pressures. if phmsa were to withdraw such authority, boardwalk pipeline would not be able to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipelines, beginning in mid-2010, or boardwalk pipeline could incur additional costs to re-obtain such authority or seek alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations, any of which could have a material adverse affect on boardwalk pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 38 table of contents item 1a. risk factors boardwalk pipeline is seeking authority from phmsa to operate its fayetteville lateral at higher than normal operating pressures. unless boardwalk pipeline obtains such authority from phmsa, boardwalk pipeline will not be able to operate the fayetteville lateral at its anticipated peak-day transmission capacity, and beginning in mid-2011, will not be able to transport all of the contracted for volumes on that pipeline. in addition, boardwalk pipeline has incurred and may continue to incur significant costs to inspect, test and remediate pipe segments on the fayetteville lateral in order to obtain, or maintain if granted, authority to operate at higher than normal operating pressures or to develop alternative ways to meet boardwalk pipeline contractual obligations, any of which could have a material adverse affect on boardwalk pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. phmsa retains discretion as to whether to grant, or to maintain in force, authority to operate a pipeline at higher than normal operating pressures. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates. boardwalk pipeline primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time existing transportation contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 14.0% of the contracts for firm transportation capacity on boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems will expire during 2010. upon expiration, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. key drivers that influence the rates that boardwalk pipeline customers are willing to pay for transportation is the price differential of natural gas between physical locations, which can be affected by, among other things, the availability and supply of natural gas, available capacity, storage inventories, weather and general market demand in the respective areas. the extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond boardwalk pipeline control, including: existing and new competition to deliver natural gas to boardwalk pipeline markets; development of new supplies located near key markets; the growth in demand for natural gas in boardwalk pipeline markets; whether the market will continue to support long-term contracts; the current price differentials, or market price spreads between various pipeline receipt and delivery points; and the effects of state regulation on customer contracting practices. increased competition could result in lower contracted pipeline capacity, decreased rates for boardwalk pipeline services and reduced revenues. boardwalk pipeline competes primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines in the transportation and storage of natural gas. competition is particularly strong in the midwest and gulf coast states where boardwalk pipeline competes with numerous existing pipelines, such as the rockies express pipeline and the mid-continent express pipeline. boardwalk pipeline will also compete with several new pipeline projects that are proposed or under development, including projects originating in the haynesville shale area more specifically, the tiger pipeline that will transport gas to perryville, louisiana and the haynesville extension pipeline that will transport gas to the industrial complex in southeastern louisiana - and the fayetteville express pipeline which will originate in the fayetteville shale area and continue eastward to mississippi. for new growth and expansion projects, boardwalk pipeline competes with other pipelines for contracts mainly with producers that would support such projects in order to transport their gas to market areas. at an industry level, the various natural gas supply areas compete against one another to reach optimal market areas, and natural gas, as a commodity, competes with other forms of energy available to boardwalk pipeline customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils, and other alternative fuel resources. boardwalk pipeline ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by competition or changing market conditions. the principal elements of competition among pipelines are availability of capacity, rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. ferc policies promote competition in gas markets by increasing the number of gas transportation options available to boardwalk pipeline customer base. increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems or, in instances where boardwalk pipeline does not have long-term contracts with 39 table of contents item 1a. risk factors fixed rates, could force boardwalk pipeline to decrease transportation or storage rates charged to its customers. competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that could significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by boardwalk pipeline operating subsidiaries, such as a recession or adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. the regulatory program that applies to interstate pipelines is different than the regulatory program that applies to many of boardwalk pipeline competitors that are not regulated interstate pipelines. this difference in regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete a project when it is regulated at the federal level. boardwalk pipeline competes against a number of intrastate pipelines which have significant regulatory advantages because of the absence of ferc regulation. in view of potential rate advantages and construction and service flexibility available to intrastate pipelines, boardwalk pipeline may lose customers and throughput to intrastate competitors. continued development of new supply sources could impact demand. the discovery of non-traditional natural gas production areas nearer to key market areas boardwalk pipeline accesses directly, or indirectly through third-party pipeline interconnects, may compete with gas originating in production areas connected to boardwalk pipeline system. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio, may cause gas in supply areas connected to boardwalk pipeline system to be diverted to markets other than boardwalk pipeline traditional market areas and may adversely affect capacity utilization on boardwalk pipeline systems and its ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition to supply volumes from the marcellus shale, gas from the rocky mountains, canada and lng import terminals may compete with and displace volumes from the gulf coast and mid-continent supply sources in order to serve the midwest and east coast markets. the displacement of gas originating in supply areas connected to boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems by these new supply sources that are closer to the end-use markets could result in lower transportation revenues, which could have a material adverse impact on boardwalk pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. boardwalk pipeline is undertaking and may continue to pursue complex pipeline or storage projects which involve significant risks that may adversely affect its business. boardwalk pipeline has recently completed several pipeline expansion projects and may also undertake additional pipeline or storage projects in the future. in pursuing previous projects, boardwalk pipeline has experienced significant cost overruns and may experience cost increases in the future. boardwalk pipeline has also experienced delays in constructing and commissioning previous projects and may experience additional delays or cost increases in the future resulting from a variety of factors, including but not limited to the following: delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, including delays in receiving authorization from phmsa to operate at higher than normal operating pressures under special permits; difficult construction conditions, including adverse weather conditions; delays in obtaining, or high demand for, key materials; and shortages of qualified labor and escalating costs of labor and materials resulting from the high level of construction activity in the pipeline industry. in pursuing current or future projects, boardwalk pipeline could experience delays or cost increases for the reasons described above or as a result of other factors. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to complete its current or future projects on the expected terms, cost or schedule, or at all. in addition, boardwalk pipeline cannot be certain that, if completed, it will be able to operate these projects, or that they will perform, in accordance with expectations. other areas of boardwalk pipeline business may suffer as a result of the diversion of management attention and other resources from its other business concerns to boardwalk pipeline projects. any of these factors could impair boardwalk pipeline ability to realize revenues from its current or future projects sufficient to cover the costs associated with owning and operating these pipelines and to provide the benefits it had anticipated from the projects, which could 40 table of contents item 1a. risk factors have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including its ability to make distributions to its unitholders. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by boardwalk pipeline to them under certain no-notice services and parking and lending ( pal ) services. ferc gas tariffs only allow boardwalk pipeline to require limited credit support in the event that transportation customers are unable to pay for its services. if any of boardwalk pipeline significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by boardwalk pipeline or contracted for with boardwalk pipeline, or to repay the gas they owe boardwalk pipeline, it could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business. in addition, as contracts expire, the failure of any of boardwalk pipeline customers could also result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business. see item 7a for more information on credit risk arising from gas loaned to customers. boardwalk pipeline depends on certain key customers for a significant portion of its revenues. the loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in boardwalk pipeline revenues. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. for example, devon energy production company, lp represented over 11.0% of boardwalk pipeline 2009 revenues and boardwalk pipeline expects this customer to continue to account for more than 10.0% of boardwalk pipeline 2010 revenues. additionally, boardwalk pipeline may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts and key customers on favorable terms. the loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business, financial condition, operating revenues and cash flows. significant changes in energy prices could affect natural gas market supply and demand, or potentially reduce the competitiveness of natural gas compared with other forms of energy available to boardwalk pipeline customers, which could reduce system throughput and adversely affect boardwalk pipeline revenues and available cash. due to the natural decline in traditional gas production connected to boardwalk pipeline system, boardwalk pipeline success depends on its ability to obtain access to new sources of natural gas, which is dependent on factors beyond its control including the price level of natural gas. in general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond boardwalk pipeline control. these factors include: worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions, seasonal trends and hurricane disruptions; the relationship between the available supplies and the demand for natural gas; the availability of lng; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; storage inventory levels; the price and availability of other forms of energy; the effect of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of, and changes in, governmental regulation, for example greenhouse gas legislation and taxation; and 41 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the anticipated future prices of natural gas, lng and other commodities. it is difficult to predict future changes in gas prices, however the abundance of natural gas supply discoveries over the last few years and global economic slowdown would generally indicate a bias toward downward pressure on prices. downward movement in gas prices could negatively impact producers in nontraditional supply areas such as the barnett shale, the bossier sands, the caney woodford shale, the fayetteville shale and the haynesville shale, including producers who have contracted for capacity with boardwalk pipeline. significant financial difficulties experienced by boardwalk pipeline producer customers could impact their ability to pay for services rendered or otherwise reduce their demand for boardwalk pipeline services. high natural gas prices may result in a reduction in the demand for natural gas. a reduced level of demand for natural gas could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems, reduce the demand for boardwalk pipeline services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to ferc rate-making policies which could limit boardwalk pipeline ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline is subject to extensive regulations relating to the rates it can charge for its transportation and storage operations. for cost-based services, ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge. the basic elements that ferc considers are the cost of providing the service, the volumes of gas being transported, how costs are allocated between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. while neither gulf south nor texas gas has an obligation to file a rate case, boardwalk pipeline gulf crossing pipeline has an obligation to file either a rate case or a cost-and-revenue study by the end of the first quarter of 2012 to justify its rates. customers of boardwalk pipeline subsidiaries or ferc can challenge the existing rates on any of its pipelines. ferc recently challenged the rates of three non-affiliated pipelines. such a challenge against boardwalk pipeline could adversely affect its ability to establish reasonable transportation rates, to charge rates that would cover future increases in boardwalk pipeline costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. additionally, ferc can propose changes or modifications to any of its existing rate-related policies. if boardwalk pipeline subsidiaries were to file a rate case, or if boardwalk pipeline has to defend its rates in a proceeding commenced by a customer or ferc, boardwalk pipeline would be required, among other things, to establish that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in boardwalk pipeline cost of service is just and reasonable. under current ferc policy, since boardwalk pipeline is a limited partnership and does not pay u.s. federal income taxes, this would require boardwalk pipeline to show that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to federal income taxation. to support such a showing, boardwalk pipeline general partner may elect to require owners of boardwalk pipeline units to re-certify their status as being subject to u.s. federal income taxation on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline subsidiaries or boardwalk pipeline may attempt to provide other evidence. boardwalk pipeline can provide no assurance that the evidence it might provide to ferc will be sufficient to establish that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to u.s. federal income tax liability on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline jurisdictional pipelines. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to make such a showing, ferc could disallow a substantial portion of the income tax allowance included in the determination of the maximum rates that may be charged by boardwalk pipeline subsidiaries, which could result in a reduction of such maximum rates from current levels. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to recover all of its costs through existing or future rates. an adverse determination in any future rate proceeding brought by or against any of boardwalk pipeline subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipeline operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which it may not be adequately insured. there are a variety of operating risks inherent in boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems. additionally, the nature and location of boardwalk pipeline business may make boardwalk pipeline susceptible to catastrophic losses from hurricanes or other named 42 table of contents item 1a. risk factors storms, particularly with regard to its assets in the gulf coast region, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, severe winter weather and fires. any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of boardwalk pipeline operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of boardwalk pipeline operations and substantial financial losses. the location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from some of these risks. boardwalk pipeline currently possesses property, business interruption and general liability insurance, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage boardwalk pipeline does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or all potential losses. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. future acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the businesses of certain of our subsidiaries, including the following: cna. cna continues to face exposure to losses arising from terrorist acts, despite the passage of the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007. the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2007 extended, until december 31, 2014, the program established within the u.s. department of treasury by the terrorism risk insurance act of 2002. this program requires insurers to offer terrorism coverage and the federal government to share in insured losses arising from acts of terrorism. given the unpredictability of the nature, targets, severity and frequency of potential terrorist acts, this program does not provide complete protection for future losses derived from acts of terrorism. further, the laws of certain states restrict cna ability to mitigate this residual exposure. for example, some states mandate property insurance coverage of damage from fire following a loss, thereby prohibiting cna from excluding terrorism exposure. in addition, some states generally prohibit cna from excluding terrorism exposure from its primary workers compensation policies. consequently, there is substantial uncertainty as to cna ability to contain its terrorism exposure effectively since cna continues to issue forms of coverage, in particular, workers compensation, that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. diamond offshore, boardwalk pipeline and highmount. the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies might lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for oil and gas, which could affect the market for diamond offshore oil and gas offshore drilling services, boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation, gathering and storage services and highmount natural gas exploration and production activities. in addition, it has been reported that terrorists might target domestic energy facilities. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to increase the security of their energy assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure their assets, completely protect them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. loews hotels. the travel and tourism industry went into a steep decline in the periods following the 2001 world trade center event which had a negative impact on the occupancy levels and average room rates at loews hotels. future terrorist attacks could similarly lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. 43 table of contents item 1a. risk factors certain of our subsidiaries face significant risks related to the impact of hurricanes and other natural disasters. in addition to cna exposure to catastrophe losses discussed above, the businesses operated by several of our other subsidiaries are exposed to significant harm from the effects of natural disasters, particularly hurricanes and related flooding and other damage. while much of the damage caused by natural disasters is covered by insurance, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be available or be adequate in all cases. these risks include the following: diamond offshore. diamond offshore operates its offshore rig fleet in waters that can be severely impacted by hurricanes and other natural disasters, including the u.s. gulf of mexico. in september of 2008, one of diamond offshore jack-up drilling rigs, the ocean tower , was damaged in hurricane ike, losing its derrick, drill floor and drill floor equipment. in late august 2005, one of diamond offshore jack-up drilling rigs, the ocean warwick , was seriously damaged during hurricane katrina and other rigs in diamond fleet and its warehouse in new iberia, louisiana sustained lesser damage in hurricanes katrina or rita, or in some cases both storms. in addition to damaging or destroying rig equipment, some or all of which may be covered by insurance, catastrophes of this kind result in additional operating expenses for diamond offshore, including the cost of reconnaissance aircraft, rig crew over-time and employee assistance, hurricane relief supplies, temporary housing and office space and the rental of mooring equipment and others which may not be covered by insurance. boardwalk pipeline. the nature and location of boardwalk pipeline business, particularly with regard to its assets in the gulf coast region, may make boardwalk pipeline susceptible to catastrophic losses especially from hurricanes or named storms. various other events can cause catastrophic losses, including windstorms, earthquakes, hail, explosions, and severe winter weather and fires. the frequency and severity of these events are inherently unpredictable. the extent of losses from catastrophes is a function of both the total amount of insured exposures in the affected areas and the severity of the events themselves. although boardwalk pipeline carries insurance, in the event of a loss the coverage could be insufficient or there could be a material delay in the receipt of the insurance proceeds. loews hotels. hotels operated by loews hotels are exposed to damage, business interruption and reductions in travel and tourism in markets affected by significant natural disasters such as hurricanes. for example, loews hotels properties located in florida and new orleans suffered significant damage from hurricanes and related flooding during the past five years. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by certain of our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which imposes or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the united states. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders rather than its investors. each state in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which cna does business. their regulations relate to, among other things: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; 44 table of contents item 1a. risk factors licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; limitations on the ability of cna insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna also is required by the states to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and is generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. diamond offshore. the drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or may significantly limit drilling activity. governments in some foreign countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore operations by limiting drilling opportunities. the minerals management service of the u.s. department of the interior, or mms, has established guidelines for drilling operations in the gom. diamond offshore believes that it is currently in compliance with the existing regulations set forth by the mms with respect to its operations in the gom; however, these regulations are continually under review. implementation of additional mms regulations may subject diamond offshore to increased costs of operating, or a reduction in the area and/or periods of operation, in the gom. highmount. all of highmount operations are conducted onshore in the united states. the u.s. oil and gas industry, and highmount operations, are subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. such regulation includes requirements with respect to, among other things: permits to drill and to conduct other operations; provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations; the location of wells; the method of drilling and completing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; and the valuation and payment of royalties; the size of drilling and spacing units (regarding the density of wells which may be drilled in a particular area); the unitization or pooling of natural gas and oil properties; maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells; venting or flaring of natural gas and the ratability of production. the conference committee report for the department of the interior, environment, and related agencies appropriations act for fiscal year 2010 requested the epa to conduct a study of hydraulic fracturing, particularly the relationship between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. hydraulic fracturing is a technique commonly used by oil and gas exploration companies, including highmount, to stimulate the production of oil and natural gas by injecting fluids and sand into underground wells at high pressures, causing fractures or fissures in the geological formation which allow oil and gas to flow more freely. in recent years, concerns have been raised that the fracturing process may contaminate underground sources of drinking water. several bills have been introduced in congress seeking federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, which has historically been regulated at the state level, though none of the proposed legislation has moved out of committee. if hydraulic fracturing is banned or significantly restricted by federal regulation or otherwise, it would have a material adverse effect on highmount ability to economically drill new natural gas wells, which would materially reduce its production, revenues and profitability. highmount operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of contaminants into the environment, the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of contaminants, and the 45 table of contents item 1a. risk factors protection of public health, natural resources, wildlife and the environment. in most instances, the regulatory requirements relate to the handling and disposal of drilling and production waste products, water and air pollution control procedures, and the remediation of petroleum-product contamination. in addition, highmount operations may require it to obtain permits for, among other things, air emissions, discharges into surface waters, and the construction and operation of underground injection wells or surface pits to dispose of produced saltwater and other non-hazardous oilfield wastes. boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc and the dot among other federal and state authorities. in addition to ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, ferc regulatory authority extends to: operating terms and conditions of service; the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer to its customers; construction of new facilities; creation, extension or abandonment of services or facilities; accounts and records; and relationships with certain types of affiliated companies involved in the natural gas business. ferc action in any of these areas or modifications of its current regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, to construct new facilities, offer new services or to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. this regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project. the federal regulatory approval and compliance process could raise the costs of such projects to the point where they are no longer sufficiently timely or cost competitive when compared to competing projects that are not subject to the federal regulatory regime. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries face intense competition. each of the businesses operated by our subsidiaries faces intense competition in its industry and will be harmed materially if it is unable to compete effectively. certain of the competitive risks faced by those companies include: cna . all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. diamond offshore. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. some of diamond offshore competitors may have greater financial or other resources than diamond offshore. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in recent years and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. intense price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job, although rig availability and location, a drilling contractor safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. mergers among oil and gas exploration and production companies have reduced the number of available customers as well as the contraction of the global economy, increasing competition. significant new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling units could also intensify price competition. diamond offshore believes there are approximately 50 jack-up rigs and 70 floaters on order and scheduled for delivery between 2010 and 2012. the resulting increase in rig supply could result in depressed rig utilization and greater price competition. highmount. highmount competes with other oil and gas companies in all aspects of its business, including acquisition of producing properties and leases and obtaining goods, services and labor, including drilling rigs and well 46 table of contents item 1a. risk factors completion services. highmount also competes in the marketing of produced natural gas and ngls. some of highmount competitors have substantially larger financial and other resources than highmount. factors that affect highmount ability to acquire producing properties include available funds, available information about the property and standards established by highmount for minimum projected return on investment. competition for sales of natural gas and ngls is also presented by alternative fuel sources, including heating oil, imported lng and other fossil fuels. boardwalk pipeline. boardwalk pipeline competes with other pipelines to maintain current business levels and to serve new demand and markets. boardwalk pipeline also competes with other pipelines for contracts with producers that would support new growth opportunities. the principal elements of competition among pipelines are available capacity, rates, terms of service, access to supply and flexibility and reliability of service. competition is particularly strong in the midwest and gulf coast states where boardwalk pipeline competes with numerous existing pipelines, including the rockies express pipeline that transports natural gas from northern colorado to eastern ohio and the mid-continent express pipeline that transports natural gas from oklahoma and texas to alabama. boardwalk pipeline will also directly compete with several new pipeline projects that are proposed or under development, including projects originating in the haynesville shale area more specifically, the tiger pipeline that will transport gas to perryville, louisiana and the haynesville extension pipeline that will transport gas to the industrial complex in southeastern louisiana - and the fayetteville express pipeline which will originate in the fayetteville shale area and continue eastward to mississippi. in addition, regulators continuing efforts to increase competition in the natural gas industry have increased the natural gas transportation options of boardwalk pipeline traditional customers. as a result of the regulators policies, segmentation and capacity release have created an active secondary market which increasingly competes with boardwalk pipeline pipeline services. additionally, natural gas competes with other forms of energy available to boardwalk pipeline customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. the natural gas industry has built, or is in the process of completing, significant new pipeline infrastructure that will support the development of unconventional natural gas supply basins across the u.s. additional pipeline infrastructure projects are being proposed. these new pipeline developments have increased competition in certain pipeline markets, resulting in lower price differentials between physical locations (basis spreads). basis spreads can impact the rates boardwalk pipeline will be able to negotiate with its customers when contracts come up for renewal. each year a portion of boardwalk pipeline capacity becomes subject to re-contracting risk. for example, approximately 14.0% of boardwalk pipeline contracts are due to expire in 2010. increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by boardwalk pipeline systems or, in instances where boardwalk pipeline does not have long term contracts with fixed rates, could force boardwalk pipeline to decrease its transportation or storage rates. the regulatory program that applies to interstate pipelines is different than the regulatory program that applies to many of boardwalk pipeline competitors that are not regulated interstate pipelines. this difference in regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete a project when it is regulated at the federal level. boardwalk pipeline competes against a number of intrastate pipelines which have significant regulatory advantages over boardwalk pipeline because of the absence of ferc regulation. in view of potential rate advantages and construction and service flexibility available to intrastate pipelines, boardwalk pipeline may lose customers and throughput to intrastate competitors. we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation. we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation in the normal course of business. litigation is costly and time consuming to defend and could result in a material expense. please read information on litigation included in the md&amp;a under item 7 and notes 9 and 19 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. certain of the litigation risks faced by us and our subsidiaries are as follows: cna. cna faces substantial risks of litigation and arbitration beyond ordinary course claims and a&amp;e matters, which may contain assertions in excess of amounts covered by reserves that it has established. these matters may be difficult to assess or quantify and may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts that include punitive or treble damages. we and our subsidiaries are each dependent on a small number of key executives and other key personnel to operate our businesses successfully. our success and the success of our operating subsidiaries substantially depends upon each company ability to attract and retain high quality executives and other qualified employees. in many instances, there may be only a limited number 47 table of contents item 1a. risk factors of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we and our subsidiaries compete and the loss of one or more key employees or the inability to attract and retain other talented personnel could impede the successful implementation of our and our subsidiaries business strategies. diamond offshore has experienced upward pressure on salaries and wages and increased competition for skilled workers as a result of the strong drilling market in recent years and has lost experienced personnel to competitors and customers. as a result, diamond offshore has implemented retention programs, including increases in compensation. certain of our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. certain of our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and/or financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws. laws and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. these laws and regulations may expose us and our subsidiaries to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. for example: as discussed in more detail above, many of cna policyholders have made claims for defense costs and indemnification in connection with environmental pollution matters; as an operator of mobile offshore drilling units in navigable u.s. waters and some offshore areas, diamond offshore may be liable for, among other things, damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to those operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed; the risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is inherent in natural gas transportation, gathering and storage, including with respect to, among other things, the handling and discharge of solid and hazardous waste from boardwalk pipeline facilities, compliance with clean air standards and the abandonment and reclamation of boardwalk pipeline facilities, sites and other properties; and development, production and sale of natural gas and ngls in the united states are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, including those related to discharge of materials into the environment and environmental protection, permits for drilling operations, bonds for ownership, development and production of oil and gas properties and reports concerning operations, which could result in liabilities for personal injuries, property damage, spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages, suspension or termination of highmount operations and administrative, civil and criminal penalties. certain of our subsidiaries are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. as awareness of climate change issues increases, governments around the world are beginning to address the matter. this may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our subsidiaries and their suppliers and customers. we and our subsidiaries may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and related services or imposing significant new costs. governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas. in addition, changing global weather patterns have been associated with extreme weather events and could change longer-term natural catastrophe trends, including increasing the frequency and severity of hurricanes and other natural disasters which could increase future catastrophe losses at cna and damage to property, disruption of business and higher operating costs at diamond offshore, boardwalk pipeline, highmount and loews hotels. there is currently no federal regulation that limits or imposes additional costs with respect to greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions in the u.s. however, several bills were introduced in congress during 2009 that would regulate u.s. ghg emissions under a cap and trade system and some regulation of that type may be enacted in the u.s. in the near future. in addition, in september 2009, the epa adopted regulations under the clean air act requiring the monitoring and reporting of annual ghg emissions by operators of facilities that emit more than 25,000 metric tons of ghg per year, 48 table of contents item 1a. risk factors which includes boardwalk pipeline beginning in 2010 and may include highmount beginning in 2011. numerous states and several regional multi-state climate initiatives have announced or adopted plans to regulate ghg emissions, though the state programs vary widely. the establishment of a ghg reporting system and registry may be a first step toward broader regulation of ghg emissions. compliance with future laws and regulations could impose significant costs on affected companies or adversely affect the demand for and the cost to produce and transport natural gas and oil, which would adversely affect the businesses of our energy subsidiaries. the economic recession and ongoing financial and credit markets crisis have had and may continue to have a negative impact on the business and financial condition of us and our subsidiaries. the recent financial and credit crisis has substantially reduced the availability of liquidity and credit available to businesses and consumers worldwide. the continued shortage of liquidity and credit, combined with substantial losses in equity and fixed income markets, has led to an economic recession in the united states and abroad. such deterioration of the worldwide economy and credit and capital markets has and may continue to adversely affect the customers of our subsidiaries, including the ability of such customers to perform under contracts. the recession has also resulted in, and may result in further, reduced demand for certain of the products and services provided by our subsidiaries, including property casualty insurance, natural gas and gas transportation services, offshore drilling services and hotel rooms and related services. such decline in demand could lead to lower revenues and earnings by our subsidiaries. we cannot predict if the actions being taken by the united states and other governments around the world to address this situation will be successful in reducing the severity or duration of this recession. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse 106 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes (inclusive of credit spread) by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one-year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2009 and 2008 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $429 million and $303 million at december 31, 2009 and 2008. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $464 million and $328 million at december 31, 2009 and 2008. highmount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $1.6 billion to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate at 5.8%. gains or losses from derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the hedged transaction. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25.0% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2009 and 2008, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25.0%. 107 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency. this exposure is mitigated by our asset/liability matching strategy and through the use of futures for those instruments which are not matched. our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in australian dollars, canadian dollars, british pounds, japanese yen and the european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20.0% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2009 and 2008, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20.0% from their levels at december 31, 2009 and 2008. the impact of a change in commodity prices on the company non-trading commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. boardwalk pipeline has established credit policies in the pipeline tariffs which are intended to minimize credit risk in accordance with ferc policies and actively monitors this portion of its business. boardwalk pipeline credit exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, as well as volumes owed by customers for imbalances or gas lent by boardwalk pipeline to them, generally under pal and no-notice services. natural gas price volatility can materially increase credit risk related to gas loaned to customers. if any significant customer of boardwalk pipeline should have credit or financial problems resulting in a delay or failure to repay the gas they owe to boardwalk pipeline, this could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. as of december 31, 2009, the amount of gas loaned out by boardwalk pipeline or owed to boardwalk pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 14.9 trillion british thermal units (tbtu). assuming an average market price during december of 2009 of $5.36 per million british thermal unit (mmbtu), the market value of this gas at december 31, 2009, would have been approximately $80 million. as of december 31, 2008, the amount of gas loaned out by boardwalk pipeline or owed to boardwalk pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 34.4 tbtu. assuming an average market price during december 2008 of $5.85 per mmbtu, the market value of this gas at december 31, 2008, would have been approximately $201 million. 108 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the following tables present our market risk by category (equity markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2009 2008 2009 2008 (in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities $ 318 $ 246 $ (79 ) $ (61 ) options purchased 45 66 7 3 written (9 ) (62 ) (7 ) (2 ) short sales (78 ) (106 ) 19 27 interest rate (2): futures long (6 ) fixed maturities long 377 565 (19 ) (6 ) short term investments 1,990 1,022 other derivatives (4 ) 19 note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25.0% and (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. 109 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2009 2008 2009 2008 (in millions) equity markets (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 644 $ 873 $ (161 ) $ (218 ) separate accounts 32 27 (8 ) (7 ) limited partnership investments 1,996 1,781 (200 ) (118 ) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a)(b) 35,439 28,886 (2,082 ) (1,919 ) short term investments (a) 5,221 5,007 (12 ) (17 ) other invested assets 4 4 interest rate swaps and other (c) (135 ) (183 ) 45 61 other derivative securities (11 ) (88 ) 90 separate accounts (a): fixed maturities 380 343 (15 ) (17 ) short term investments 6 7 foreign exchange (3): forwards short 3 (37 ) (21 ) (33 ) commodities (4): forwards short (c) 11 157 (134 ) (69 ) options written 2 4 (1 ) (2 ) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25.0%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20.0% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20.0%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20.0% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(330) and $(225) at december 31, 2009 and 2008. (b) at december 31, 2008, certain fixed maturities positions include options embedded in convertible debt securities. a decrease in underlying equity prices of 25.0% would result in market risk amounting to $(5) at december 31, 2008. (c) the market risk at december 31, 2009 and 2008 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 110 table of contentsrisk factors. our business faces many risks. we have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the sec or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries before investing in any of their securities. 20 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded loss reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claims, cna may need to increase its loss reserves. cna maintains loss reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims and for future policy benefits. reserves represent cna best estimate at a given point in time. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by cna, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, expected interest rates, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on cna part. as trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in so-called long tail or long duration coverages, cna is sometimes required to add to its reserves. this is called unfavorable net prior year development and results in a charge to earnings in the amount of the added reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. these charges can be substantial. cna is also subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves which can have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and equity. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: the effects of recessionary economic conditions, which have resulted in an increase in the number and size of claims due to corporate failures; these claims include both directors and officers ( d&amp;o ) and errors and omissions ( e&amp;o ) insurance claims; class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; and mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to welding rods, benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss, injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals, and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, cna reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. if estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings for the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. cna has exposure related to asbestos and environmental pollution ( a&amp;ep ) claims, which could result in additional losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries also have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims are subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer ). if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, cna liabilities for a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion, or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss 21 table of contents portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded reserves which would result in a charge against cna earnings. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe losses are unpredictable. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, and acts of terrorism, and their frequency and severity are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of both the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas and the frequency and severity of the events themselves. in addition, as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to cna to be finally determined. as cna claim experience develops on a particular catastrophe, cna may be required to adjust its reserves, or take unfavorable development, to reflect revised estimates of the total cost of claims. cna premium writings and profitability are affected by the availability and cost of reinsurance. cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna claim and claim adjustment expenses in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables in its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced deteriorating financial condition or have been downgraded by rating agencies. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if cna is not able to collect the amounts due from reinsurers, its incurred losses will be higher. cna key assumptions used to determine reserves and deferred acquisition costs for its long term care product offerings could vary significantly from actual experience. cna reserves and deferred acquisition costs for its long term care product offerings are based on certain key assumptions including morbidity, which is the frequency and severity of illness, sickness and diseases contracted, policy persistency, which is the percentage of policies remaining in force, interest rates and future health care cost trends. if actual experience differs from these assumptions, the deferred acquisition cost asset may not be fully realized and the reserves may not be adequate, requiring cna to add to reserves, or take unfavorable development. cna has incurred and may continue to incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from volatility in the capital and credit markets. cna portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit and currency risks, many of which are unpredictable. investment returns are an important part of cna overall profitability. general economic conditions, changes in financial markets such as fluctuations in interest rates, long term periods of low interest rates, credit conditions and currency, commodity and stock prices, including the short and long term effects of losses in relation to asset-backed securities, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments and the realization of investment income. further, cna invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed income investments. limited partnership 22 table of contents investments generally present greater market volatility, higher illiquidity, and greater risk than fixed income investments. as a result of all of these factors, cna may not realize an adequate return on its investments, may incur losses on sales of its investments, and may be required to write-down the value of its investments. cna valuation of investments and impairment of securities requires significant judgment. cna exercises significant judgment in analyzing and validating fair values, primarily provided by third parties, for securities in its investment portfolio including those that are not regularly traded. cna also exercises significant judgment in determining whether the impairment of particular investments is temporary or other-than-temporary. securities with exposure to residential and commercial mortgage and other loan collateral can be particularly sensitive to fairly small changes in actual collateral performance and assumptions as to future collateral performance. due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these types of risks and the resulting judgments, cna may incur unrealized losses and conclude that other-than-temporary write-downs of its investments are required. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to risk-based capital standards set by state regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of cna statutory capital and surplus reported in cna statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the risk-based capital formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, state regulators may restrict or prohibit it from operating its business. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimates or circumstances or if it incurs significant unrealized losses related to its investment portfolio, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. examples of events leading cna to record a material charge against earnings include impairment of its investments or unexpectedly poor claims experience. while we have provided cna with substantial amounts of capital in prior years. we may be restricted in our ability or may not be willing to provide additional capital support to cna in the future. if cna is in need of additional capital, cna may be required to secure this funding from sources other than us. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its working capital needs, are limited by state regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary state departments of insurance are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by state. the formula for the majority of the states is the greater of 10.0% of the prior year statutory surplus or the prior year statutory net income, less the aggregate of all dividends paid during the twelve months prior to the date of payment. some states, however, have an additional stipulation that dividends cannot exceed the prior year earned surplus. if cna is restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving inter-company dividends, cna may not be able to fund its working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor s. ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. 23 table of contents due to the intense competitive environment in which cna operates, the uncertainty in determining reserves and the potential for cna to take material unfavorable development in the future, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies, the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future. if cna property and casualty insurance financial strength ratings are downgraded below current levels, cna business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets, and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. cna has entered into several settlement agreements and assumed reinsurance contracts that require collateralization of future payment obligations and assumed reserves if its ratings or other specific criteria fall below certain thresholds. the ratings triggers are generally more than one level below cna current ratings. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. worldwide demand for oil and gas, oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic factors significantly affect this level of activity. however, higher or lower commodity demand and prices do not necessarily translate into increased or decreased drilling activity since diamond offshore customers project development time, reserve replacement needs, as well as expectations of future commodity demand and prices all combine to affect demand for diamond offshore rigs. oil and gas prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control, including: worldwide demand for oil and gas; the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; the worldwide economic environment or economic trends, such as recessions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, commonly called opec, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities in the middle east, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; civil unrest; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; 24 table of contents weather conditions in the united states and elsewhere; the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; development and exploitation of alternative fuels; competition for customers drilling budgets from land-based energy markets around the world; domestic and foreign tax policy; and advances in exploration and development technology. the aftermath of the moratorium on offshore drilling in the u.s. gulf of mexico and new regulations adopted as a result of the investigation into the macondo well blowout could negatively impact diamond offshore. on april 20, 2010, the macondo well (operated by bp p.l.c. and drilled by transocean ltd) in the gom experienced a blowout and immediately began flowing oil into the gom ( the macondo incident ). efforts to permanently plug and abandon the well and contain the spill were successfully completed in september 2010. in the near-term aftermath of the macondo incident, on may 30, 2010, the u.s. government imposed a six-month moratorium on certain drilling activities in water deeper than 500 feet in the gom and subsequently implemented enhanced safety requirements applicable to all drilling operations in the gom, including operations in water shallower than 500 feet. on october 12, 2010, the u.s. government lifted the moratorium subject to compliance with enhanced safety requirements including those set forth in notices to lessees ( ntl ) 2010-n05 and 2010-n06, both of which were implemented during the drilling ban. currently, all operations in the gom are required to comply with the interim final rule to enhance safety measures for energy development on the outer continental shelf (drilling safety rule) and the workplace safety rule on safety and environmental management systems, both of which were issued on september 30, 2010, as well as ntl 2010-n10 (known as the compliance and review ntl). diamond offshore continues to evaluate these new measures to ensure that its rigs and equipment are in full compliance, where applicable. additional requirements could be forthcoming based on further recommendations by regulatory agencies investigating the macondo incident, as well as restructuring within the department of the interior and the bureau of ocean energy management, regulation and enforcement ( boemre ). diamond offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking, nor is diamond offshore able to predict when the boemre will issue drilling permits to diamond offshore customers. diamond offshore is not able to predict the future impact of these events on its operations. even with the drilling ban lifted, requirements regarding certain deepwater drilling activities may remain uncertain until the boemre resumes its regular permitting of those activities. the current and future regulatory environment in the gom could result in a number of rigs being, or becoming available to be, moved to locations outside of the gom, which could potentially put downward pressure on global dayrates and adversely affect diamond offshore ability to contract its floating rigs that are currently not contracted or coming off contract. additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of diamond offshore operations, and escalating costs borne by its customers, along with permitting delays, could reduce exploration activity in the gom and therefore demand for diamond offshore services. in addition, insurance costs across the industry are expected to increase as a result of the macondo incident, and in the future certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly, and may become less available or not available at all. diamond offshore industry is cyclical. diamond offshore industry has historically been cyclical. there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates followed by periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such business cycles. periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idle for long periods of time. in response to a contraction in demand for its services, diamond offshore has cold stacked seven of its rigs as of the date of this report. diamond offshore also may be required to idle additional rigs or to enter into lower rate contracts. prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash 25 table of contents flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. significant new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs could intensify price competition. as of the date of this report, based on analyst reports, diamond offshore believes that there are approximately 50 jack-up rigs and 50 floaters on order and scheduled for delivery between 2011 and 2013. the resulting increases in rig supply could be sufficient to further depress rig utilization and intensify price competition from both existing competitors, as well as new entrants into the offshore drilling market. as of the date of this report, not all of the rigs currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may further intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. the majority of the floaters on order are dynamically-positioned drilling rigs, which further increases competition with diamond offshore fleet in certain circumstances, depending on customer requirements. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. as of february 1, 2011, diamond offshore contract drilling backlog was approximately $6.6 billion for contracted future work extending, in some cases, until 2016. generally, contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, diamond offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that it will be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond its control or that diamond offshore will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement in cases where one does not currently exist. in addition, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be able to or willing to fulfill their contractual commitments. diamond offshore inability to perform under its contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements or its customers inability to fulfill their contractual commitments may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. diamond offshore relies heavily on a relatively small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer and/or a dispute that leads to the loss of a customer could have a material adverse impact on its financial results. diamond offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. however, the number of potential customers has decreased in recent years as a result of mergers among the major international oil companies and large independent oil companies. in 2010, diamond offshore five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 56.0% of its consolidated revenues. diamond offshore expects petrobras, which accounted for approximately 24.0% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2010 and ogx, which accounted for approximately 14.0% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2010, to continue to be significant customers in 2011. diamond offshore contract drilling backlog, as of the date of this report, includes $1.7 billion, or 61.0% of its contracted backlog for 2011, which is attributable to contracts with petrobras and ogx for operations offshore brazil in 2011. while it is normal for diamond offshore customer base to change over time as work programs are completed, the loss of any major customer may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. the terms of diamond offshore dayrate drilling contracts may limit its ability to attain profitability in a declining market or to benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market. the duration of offshore drilling contracts is generally determined by customer requirements and, to a lesser extent, the respective management strategies of the offshore drilling contractors. in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors generally prefer longer term contracts, but often at flat or slightly lower dayrates, to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of lower dayrates. conversely, in periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, contractors typically prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly profit from increasing dayrates. in contrast, during these periods customers with reasonably definite drilling programs typically prefer longer term contracts to maintain dayrate prices at a consistent level. an inability to obtain longer term contracts in a declining market or to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market through shorter term contracts may limit diamond offshore profitability. 26 table of contents contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability on those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs incurred by diamond offshore. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond diamond offshore control. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in diamond offshore operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may be unable to recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore drilling contracts may be terminated due to events beyond its control. diamond offshore customers may terminate some of their drilling contracts if the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if diamond offshore has to suspend drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods by tendering contractually specified termination amounts. these termination payments may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. during periods of depressed market conditions, diamond offshore may be subject to an increased risk of its customers seeking to repudiate their contracts. diamond offshore customers ability to perform their obligations under drilling contracts may also be adversely affected by restricted credit markets and the economic downturn. diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, and oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, its insurance coverage may not adequately cover diamond offshore losses and claim costs. in addition, pollution and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable when they are determined to be the result of criminal acts. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. generally diamond offshore contracts with its customers contain contractual rights to indemnity from its customer for, among other things, pollution originating from the well, while diamond offshore retains responsibility for pollution originating from the rig. however, diamond offshore contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by diamond offshore, its subcontractors and/or suppliers and its customers may dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations to diamond offshore. diamond offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of diamond offshore size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. however, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect 27 table of contents on diamond offshore results of operations, financial position and cash flows. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will necessarily be financially able to indemnify diamond offshore against all of these risks. in addition, no assurance can be made that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. because the amount of insurance coverage available to diamond offshore has been limited, and the cost for such coverage has increased substantially, diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. this results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. a significant portion of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world that may expose it to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; piracy or assaults on property or personnel; kidnapping of personnel; expropriation of property or equipment; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; changing political conditions; foreign and domestic monetary policies; the inability to repatriate income or capital; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; and changing taxation policies. diamond offshore is subject to the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to worldwide anti-bribery laws. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling rigs; import - export quotas or other trade barriers; 28 table of contents repatriation of foreign earnings or capital; oil and gas exploration and development; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. these practices may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete in those regions. it is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete. as of the date of this report, the greatest concentration of diamond offshore operating assets outside the united states is in brazil, where it has 16 rigs in its fleet either currently working or contracted to work during 2011. in addition, as of the date of this report, diamond offshore has one high specification floater and two jack-up rigs contracted offshore egypt. although these rigs have continued to work throughout the recent political unrest in egypt, there have been, and in the future there may be other, disruptions to the support networks within egypt, including the banking institutions. diamond offshore drilling contracts offshore mexico expose it to greater risks than they normally assume. diamond offshore currently operates and expects to continue to operate rigs drilling offshore mexico for pemex - exploracion y produccion ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico. the terms of these contracts expose diamond offshore to greater risks than they normally assume, such as exposure to greater environmental liability. in addition, each contract can be terminated by pemex on 30 days notice, contractually or by statute, subject to certain conditions. while diamond offshore believes that the financial terms of these contracts and its operating safeguards in place mitigate these risks, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a negative impact on its future operations or financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore international operations, diamond offshore may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that financial hedging arrangements will effectively hedge any foreign currency fluctuation losses that may arise. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond offshore international limited ( doil ), a wholly owned cayman islands subsidiary of diamond offshore. since forming this subsidiary it has been diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of this subsidiary to finance foreign operations, except for the earnings of diamond east asia limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of doil. it is diamond offshore intention to repatriate the earnings of diamond east asia limited, and u.s. income taxes will be provided on such earnings. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any future earnings generated by doil, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax or as they relate to diamond east asia limited. should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes. 29 table of contents rig conversions, upgrades or new builds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore may undertake to add new capacity through conversions or upgrades to existing rigs or through new construction. projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; weather interferences; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; customer acceptance delays; shipyard failures or unavailability; and failure or delay of third party service providers and labor disputes. failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of revenue to diamond offshore. if a drilling contract is terminated under these circumstances, diamond offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract with equally favorable terms. risks related to us and our subsidiary, highmount exploration &amp; production llc highmount may not be able to replace reserves and sustain production at current levels. replacing reserves is risky and uncertain and requires significant capital expenditures. highmount success depends largely upon its ability to find, develop or acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable. unless highmount replaces the reserves produced through successful development, exploration or acquisition, its proved reserves will decline over time. highmount may not be able to successfully find and produce reserves economically in the future or to acquire proved reserves at acceptable costs. highmount makes a substantial amount of capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of reserves. highmount expects to fund its capital expenditures with cash from its operating activities. if highmount cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund its capital expenditure budget, there can be no assurance that financing will be available or available at favorable terms to meet those requirements. estimates of natural gas and ngl reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. estimating the volume of proved natural gas and ngl reserves is a complex process and is not an exact science because of numerous uncertainties inherent in the process. the process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. the extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. the process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. actual future production, commodity prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable reserves most likely will vary from highmount estimates. any significant variance could 30 table of contents materially affect the quantities and present value of highmount reserves. in addition, highmount may adjust estimates of proved reserves upward or downward to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing commodity prices and prevailing development expenses. the timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of natural gas and ngl properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. in addition, the 10.0% discount factor, used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate representation of their value. if commodity prices decrease, highmount may be required to take additional write-downs of the carrying values of its properties. highmount may be required, under full cost accounting rules, to write-down the carrying value of its natural gas and ngl properties. a number of factors could result in a write-down, including a significant decline in commodity prices, a substantial downward adjustment to estimated proved reserves, a substantial increase in estimated development costs, or deterioration in exploration results. highmount utilizes the full cost method of accounting for its exploration and development activities. under full cost accounting, highmount is required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. the ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or ceiling, of the book value of highmount natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at the required rate of 10.0%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges, calculated using the average first day of the month price for the preceding 12-month period. if the net book value of highmount exploration and production ( e&amp;p ) properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability) exceeds its ceiling limitation, highmount will impair or write-down the book value of its e&amp;p properties. a write-down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas and ngl prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. depending on the magnitude of any future impairment, a ceiling test write-down could significantly reduce highmount income, or produce a loss. natural gas, ngl and other commodity prices are volatile. the commodity price highmount receives for its production heavily influences its revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. highmount is subject to risks due to frequent and possibly substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. ngl prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. in the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and highmount expects this volatility to continue. the markets and prices for natural gas and ngls depend upon factors beyond highmount control. these factors include, among others, economic and market conditions, domestic production and import levels, storage levels, basis differentials, weather, government regulations and taxation. lower commodity prices may decrease highmount revenues and reduce the amount of natural gas and ngls that highmount can produce economically. highmount engages in commodity price hedging activities. the extent of highmount commodity price risk is related to the effectiveness and scope of highmount hedging activities. to the extent highmount hedges its commodity price risk, highmount will forego the benefits it would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in its favor. furthermore, because highmount has entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of its natural gas and ngl production, highmount will continue to have direct commodity price risk on the unhedged portion. highmount actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than highmount estimates at the time it enters into derivative transactions for that period. as a result, highmount hedging activities may not be as effective as highmount intends in reducing the volatility of its cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of cash flows. in addition, even though highmount management monitors its hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement or if the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective. 31 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline may not be able to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long term basis. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to market risk when its transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or on a long term basis. key drivers that influence the rates and terms of boardwalk pipeline transportation contracts include the current and anticipated basis differentials between physical locations on its pipeline systems, which can be affected by, among other things, the availability and supply of natural gas, competition from other pipelines, including pipeline under development, available capacity, storage inventories, regulatory developments, weather and general market demand in the respective areas. the new sources of natural gas that have been identified throughout the u.s. have created changes in pricing dynamics between supply basins, pooling points and market areas. as a result of the increase in overall pipeline capacity and the new sources of supply, in 2009 basis spreads on boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems began to narrow. basis spreads have impacted, and will continue to impact, the rates boardwalk pipeline has been able to negotiate with its customers on contracts due for renewal for firm transportation services, as well as the rates it can charge for interruptible and short term firm transportation services. the principal elements of competition among pipelines are availability of capacity, rates, terms of service, access to gas supplies, flexibility and reliability of service. ferc policies promote competition in natural gas markets by increasing the number of gas transportation options available to boardwalk pipeline customer base. increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems or, in instances where boardwalk pipeline does not have long term contracts with fixed rates, could cause boardwalk pipeline to decrease transportation or storage rates charged to its customers. competition could intensify the negative impact of factors that could significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by boardwalk pipeline operating subsidiaries, such as a recession or adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. boardwalk pipeline needs to maintain authority from phmsa to operate portions of its pipeline systems at higher than normal operating pressures. boardwalk pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers which utilize the maximum design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, assuming that boardwalk pipeline operates those pipelines at higher than normal operating pressures (up to 0.80 smys). boardwalk pipeline has authority from phmsa to operate those pipeline assets at such higher pressures, however, phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas and could incur significant additional costs to re-obtain such authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to ferc rate-making policies which could limit boardwalk pipeline ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline is subject to extensive regulations relating to the rates it can charge for its transportation and storage operations. for cost-based services, ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge. the basic elements that ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. while neither gulf south nor texas gas has an obligation to file a rate case, gulf crossing pipeline has an obligation to file either a rate case or a cost-and-revenue study by the end of the first quarter of 2012 to justify its rates. customers of boardwalk pipeline subsidiaries or ferc can challenge the existing rates on any of its pipelines. during the past two years ferc has challenged the rates of several pipelines not affiliated with boardwalk pipelines. such a challenge against boardwalk pipeline could adversely affect its ability to establish reasonable transportation rates, to charge rates that would cover future increases in boardwalk pipeline costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. 32 table of contents if boardwalk pipeline were to file a rate case or defend its rates in a proceeding commenced by a customer or ferc, boardwalk pipeline would be required, among other things, to establish that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in boardwalk pipeline cost of service is just and reasonable. under current ferc policy, since boardwalk pipeline is a limited partnership and does not pay u.s. federal income taxes, this would require boardwalk pipeline to show that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to federal income taxation. to support such a showing, boardwalk pipeline general partner may elect to require owners of boardwalk pipeline units to re-certify their status as being subject to u.s. federal income taxation on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline or may attempt to provide other evidence. boardwalk pipeline can provide no assurance that the evidence it might provide to ferc will be sufficient to establish that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to u.s. federal income tax liability on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline jurisdictional pipelines. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to make such a showing, ferc could disallow a substantial portion of the income tax allowance included in the determination of the maximum rates that may be charged by boardwalk pipeline, which could result in a reduction of such maximum rates from current levels. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to recover all of its costs through existing or future rates. continued development of new supply sources could impact demand for boardwalk pipeline services. supplies of natural gas in production areas that are closer to key end-user market areas than boardwalk pipeline supply sources may compete with gas originating in production areas connected to boardwalk pipeline system. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio, may cause gas in supply areas connected to boardwalk pipeline system to be diverted to markets other than boardwalk pipeline traditional market areas and may adversely affect capacity utilization on boardwalk pipeline systems and its ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, natural gas supplies from the rocky mountains, canada and liquefied natural gas import terminals may compete with and displace volumes from the gulf coast and mid-continent supply sources where boardwalk pipeline is located, which could reduce boardwalk pipeline transportation volumes and the rates it can charge for its services. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by boardwalk pipeline to them under certain no-notice and parking and lending services. ferc gas tariffs only allow boardwalk pipeline to require limited credit support in the event that transportation customers are unable to pay for its services. if any of boardwalk pipeline significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by boardwalk pipeline or contracted for with boardwalk pipeline, or to repay the gas they owe boardwalk pipeline, it could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business. in addition, as contracts expire, the failure of any of boardwalk pipeline customers could also result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity. boardwalk pipeline depends on certain key customers for a significant portion of its revenues. the loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in boardwalk pipeline revenues. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. boardwalk pipeline largest customer in terms of revenue, devon gas services, lp represented over 13.0% of boardwalk pipeline 2010 revenues and boardwalk pipeline expects this customer to continue to account for more than 10.0% of its 2011 revenues. for 2010, boardwalk pipeline top ten customers comprised approximately 45.0% of its revenues. boardwalk pipeline may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts with key customers on favorable terms which could materially reduce its contracted transportation volumes and the rates it can charge for its services. boardwalk pipeline may pursue complex pipeline or storage projects which involve significant risks. the most significant element of boardwalk pipeline growth strategy in recent years was the completion of large development projects to enlarge and enhance its pipeline and storage systems. boardwalk pipeline may undertake additional large development projects in the future as it continues to pursue its growth strategy. the successful completion of such projects, and the returns boardwalk pipeline may realize from those projects after completion, are subject to many significant risks, including cost overruns, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, difficult construction conditions, including adverse weather conditions, delays in obtaining key materials, shortages of qualified labor, and 33 table of contents escalating costs of labor and materials, particularly in the event there is a high level of construction activity in the pipeline industry at that time. as a result, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to complete future projects on the expected terms, cost or schedule, or at all. in addition, boardwalk pipeline cannot be certain that, if completed, it will be able to operate these projects, or that they will perform in accordance with expectations. other areas of boardwalk pipeline business may suffer as a result of the diversion of management attention and other resources from other business concerns. any of these factors could impair boardwalk pipeline ability to realize the benefits anticipated from the projects. significant changes in energy prices could affect natural gas market supply and demand, or potentially reduce the competitiveness of natural gas compared with other forms of energy available to boardwalk pipeline customers, which could reduce system throughput and adversely affect boardwalk pipeline revenues and available cash. due to the natural decline in traditional gas production connected to boardwalk pipeline system, boardwalk pipeline success depends on its ability to obtain access to new sources of natural gas, which is dependent on factors beyond its control including the price level of natural gas. in general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors, including: economic conditions; weather conditions, seasonal trends and hurricane disruptions; new supply sources; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; storage inventory levels; the price and availability of other forms of energy; the effect of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of, and changes in, governmental regulation, for example greenhouse gas legislation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas and other commodities. it is difficult to predict future changes in gas prices. however, the abundance of natural gas supply discoveries over the last few years would generally indicate a bias toward downward pressure on prices. downward movement in gas prices could negatively impact producers in nontraditional supply areas such as the barnett shale, the bossier sands, the caney woodford shale, the fayetteville shale and the haynesville shale, including producers who have contracted for capacity with boardwalk pipeline. significant financial difficulties experienced by boardwalk pipeline producer customers could impact their ability to pay for services rendered or otherwise reduce their demand for boardwalk pipeline services. high natural gas prices may result in a reduction in the demand for natural gas. a reduced level of demand for natural gas could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems, reduce the demand for boardwalk pipeline services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. 34 table of contents acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the assets and businesses of certain of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism, including increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of oil and gas, could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services, boardwalk pipeline transportation, gathering and storage services and highmount exploration and production activities. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which impose or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout the united states. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders rather than its investors. each state in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate its business, including: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; limitations on the ability of cna insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna also is required by the states to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and is generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state. diamond offshore. the drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or may significantly limit drilling activity. 35 table of contents governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore operations by limiting drilling opportunities. highmount. all of highmount operations are conducted onshore in the united states. the u.s. oil and gas industry, and highmount operations, are subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. such regulation includes requirements with respect to, among other things: permits to drill and to conduct other operations; provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations; the location of wells; the method of drilling and completing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; the valuation and payment of royalties; the size of drilling and spacing units (regarding the density of wells which may be drilled in a particular area); the unitization or pooling of natural gas and oil properties; maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells; venting or flaring of natural gas and the ratability of production. the conference committee report for the department of the interior, environment, and related agencies appropriations act for fiscal year 2010 requested the epa to conduct a study of hydraulic fracturing, particularly the relationship between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. hydraulic fracturing is a technique commonly used by oil and gas exploration companies, including highmount, to stimulate the production of oil and natural gas by injecting fluids and sand into underground wells at high pressures, causing fractures or fissures in the geological formation which allow oil and gas to flow more freely. in recent years, concerns have been raised that the fracturing process may contaminate underground sources of drinking water. several bills were introduced in the 111 th congress seeking federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, which has historically been regulated at the state level, though none of the proposed legislation was passed into law. indications are that similar bills will be introduced in the new congress. if hydraulic fracturing is banned or significantly restricted by federal regulation or otherwise, it could impair highmount ability to economically drill new natural gas wells, which would reduce its production, revenues and profitability. boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc and the dot among other federal and state authorities. in addition to ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, federal regulations extend to pipeline safety, operating terms and conditions of service, the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer, construction or abandonment of facilities, accounting and record keeping, and relationships and transactions with affiliated companies. these regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, including by increasing the lead times to develop projects, offer new services, or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and/or financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, many of which have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. highmount is also subject to extensive environmental regulation in the conduct of its business, particularly related to the handling and disposal of drilling and production waste products, water and air pollution control procedures, and the remediation of petroleum-product contamination. we are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. as awareness of climate change issues increases, governments around the world are beginning to address the matter. this may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our subsidiaries and their suppliers and customers. we and our subsidiaries may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and related services provided by our energy subsidiaries. governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which 36 table of contents may reduce demand for oil and natural gas. in addition, changing global weather patterns have been associated with extreme weather events and could change longer-term natural catastrophe trends, including increasing the frequency and severity of hurricanes and other natural disasters which could increase future catastrophe losses at cna and damage to property, disruption of business and higher operating costs at diamond offshore, boardwalk pipeline, highmount and loews hotels. there is currently no federal regulation that limits ghg emissions in the u.s. however, several bills were introduced in congress in recent years that would regulate u.s. ghg emissions under a cap and trade system. although these bills were not passed into law, some regulation of that type may be enacted in the u.s. in the near future. in addition, in 2009, the epa adopted regulations under the clean air act requiring the monitoring and reporting of annual ghg emissions by operators of facilities that emit more than 25,000 metric tons of ghg per year, which includes boardwalk pipeline and highmount. numerous states and several regional multi-state climate initiatives have announced or adopted plans to regulate ghg emissions, though the state programs vary widely. the establishment of a ghg reporting system and registry may be a first step toward broader regulation of ghg emissions. compliance with future laws and regulations could impose significant costs on affected companies or adversely affect the demand for and the cost to produce and transport hydrocarbon-based fuel, which would adversely affect the businesses of our energy subsidiaries. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, natural gas and oil properties at highmount, pipeline equipment at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. the goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit fair value as of the testing date. we calculate the fair value of our reporting units (each of our principal operating subsidiaries) based on estimates of future discounted cash flows, which reflect management judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, future industry conditions and operations and other factors. asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits. we are currently a defendant in three such lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material 37 table of contents adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and equity. we do not expect that the separation will alter the legal exposure of either entity with respect to tobacco-related claims. we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims. additional information on the separation is included in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under item 8. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes (inclusive of credit spread) by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one-year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2010 and 2009 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. 92 table of contents our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $425 million and $429 million at december 31, 2010 and 2009. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $464 million at december 31, 2010 and december 31, 2009. highmount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $1.1 billion to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate at 5.7%. gains or losses from derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the hedged transaction. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25.0% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2010 and 2009, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25.0%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency. this exposure is mitigated by our asset/liability matching strategy and through the use of futures for those instruments which are not matched. our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in australian dollars, canadian dollars, british pounds, brazilian reais and the european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20.0% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2010 and 2009, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20.0% from their levels at december 31, 2010 and 2009. the impact of a change in commodity prices on the company non-trading commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. boardwalk pipeline has established credit policies in the pipeline tariffs which are intended to minimize credit risk in accordance with ferc policies and actively monitors this portion of its business. boardwalk pipeline credit exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, as well as volumes owed by customers for imbalances or gas lent by boardwalk pipeline to them, generally under pal and no-notice services. natural gas price volatility can materially increase credit risk related to gas loaned to customers. if any significant customer of boardwalk pipeline should have credit or financial problems resulting in a delay or failure to repay the gas they owe to boardwalk pipeline, this could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. as of december 31, 2010, the amount of gas loaned out by boardwalk pipeline or owed to boardwalk pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 13.0 trillion british thermal units (tbtu). assuming an average market price during december of 2010 of $4.21 per million british thermal unit (mmbtu), the market value of this gas at december 31, 2010, would have been approximately $55 million. as of december 31, 2009, the amount of gas loaned out by boardwalk pipeline or owed to boardwalk pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 14.9 tbtu. assuming an average market price during december 2009 of $5.36 per mmbtu, the market value of this gas at december 31, 2009, would have been approximately $80 million. 93 table of contents the following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2010 2009 2010 2009 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities long $ 616 $ 318 $ (154 ) $ (79 ) short (68 ) (78 ) 17 19 options purchased 30 45 3 7 written (10 ) (9 ) 4 (7 ) interest rate (2): fixed maturities long 231 377 (10 ) (19 ) short (250 ) 5 short term investments 3,118 1,990 other derivatives 19 note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25.0% and (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2010 2009 2010 2009 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 440 $ 644 $ (110 ) $ (161 ) separate accounts 22 32 (5 ) (8 ) limited partnership investments 2,814 1,996 (256 ) (200 ) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) 37,583 35,439 (2,417 ) (2,082 ) short term investments (a) 3,962 5,221 (7 ) (12 ) other invested assets 113 4 (7 ) interest rate swaps and other (b) (76 ) (135 ) 17 45 other derivative securities (1 ) (11 ) separate accounts (a): fixed maturities 405 380 (18 ) (15 ) short term investments 18 6 foreign exchange (3): forwards short 4 3 (26 ) (21 ) commodities (4): forwards short (b) 47 11 (85 ) (134 ) options written 2 (1 ) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25.0%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20.0% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20.0%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20.0% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(362) and $(330) at december 31, 2010 and 2009. (b) the market risk at december 31, 2010 and 2009 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 94 table of contentsrisk factors. our business faces many risks. we have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the sec or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries before investing in any of their securities. risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claims and claim adjustment expense, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims and for future policy benefits. reserves represent cna best estimate at a given point in time. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by cna, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of illness, sickness and diseases contracted. many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on cna part. as trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in so-called long tail or long duration coverages, cna is sometimes required to add to its reserves. this is called unfavorable net prior year development and results in a charge to earnings in the amount of the added reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. these charges can be substantial. cna is also subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves which can have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and equity. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: 22 table of contents the effects of worldwide economic conditions, which have resulted in an increase in the number and size of certain claims including both directors and officers ( d&amp;o ) and errors and omissions ( e&amp;o ) insurance claims related to corporate failures, as well as other coverages; class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; and mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to welding rods, benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss, injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals, and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, cna reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. if estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, and the level of reinsurance and reinsurance reinstatement premiums, if any. as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, additional living expenses, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. as a result, losses from these types of catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to manage. as cna claim experience develops on a specific catastrophe, cna may be required to adjust its reserves, or take unfavorable net prior year development, to reflect revised estimates of the total cost of claims. cna premium writings and profitability are affected by the availability and cost of reinsurance. cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables in its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced deteriorating financial condition or have been downgraded by rating agencies. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if cna is not able to collect the amounts due from reinsurers, its net incurred losses will be higher. 23 table of contents cna has exposure related to asbestos and environmental pollution ( a&amp;ep ) claims, which could result in additional losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims are subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer ). if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, cna liabilities for a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion, or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against cna earnings. these charges could be substantial. cna key assumptions used to determine reserves and the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs for long term care products and payout annuity contracts could vary significantly from actual experience. cna reserves and the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs for long term care products and payout annuity contracts are based on certain key assumptions including: (i) morbidity; (ii) mortality; (iii) policy persistency, which is the percentage of policies remaining in force; and (iv) discount rates, which are impacted by expected investment yields. these foregoing assumptions, while based on historical data and industry experience, and monitored consistently, are critical bases for reserve estimates. accordingly, if actual experience differs from these assumptions, the deferred acquisition cost asset may not be fully realized and cna reserves may not be adequate, requiring cna to add to reserves. any such adjustments to reserves would be reflected in the consolidated statements of income in the period the need for such adjustment is determined. cna is exposed to credit risk under deductible policies. a portion of cna business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and are reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. as a result cna is exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. if cna is not able to collect the amounts due from policyholders, its incurred losses will be higher. cna has incurred and may continue to incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from volatility in the capital and credit markets. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit and currency risks, many of which are unpredictable. investment returns are an important part of cna overall profitability. general economic conditions, changes in financial markets such as fluctuations in interest rates, credit conditions and currency, commodity and stock prices, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments and the realization of investment income. further, cna invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed income investments. in addition, limited partnership investments generally present, higher illiquidity than fixed income investments. as a result of all of these factors, cna may not realize an adequate return on its investments, may incur losses on sales of its investments, and may be required to write-down the value of its investments. cna valuation of investments and impairment of securities requires significant judgment. cna exercises significant judgment in analyzing and validating fair values, which are primarily provided by third parties, for securities in its investment portfolio including those that are not regularly traded in active markets. cna also exercises significant judgment in determining whether the impairment of particular investments is temporary or other-than-temporary. residential and commercial mortgage and other asset backed securities can be particularly sensitive to 24 table of contents fairly small changes in collateral performance. due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these types of risks and the resulting judgments, cna may incur unrealized losses and conclude that other-than-temporary write-downs of its investments are required. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of statutory capital and surplus reported in cna statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, regulators may restrict or prohibit it from operating its business. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimates or circumstances or if it incurs significant unrealized losses related to its investment portfolio, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. while we have provided cna with substantial amounts of capital in prior years, we may be restricted in our ability or may not be willing to provide additional capital support to cna in the future. if cna is in need of additional capital, cna may be required to secure this funding from sources other than us. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its working capital needs, are limited by state regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary state departments of insurance are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by state. the formula for the majority of the states is the greater of 10% of the prior year statutory surplus or the prior year statutory net income, less the aggregate of all dividends paid during the twelve months prior to the date of payment. some states, however, have an additional stipulation that dividends cannot exceed the prior year earned surplus. if cna is restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving inter-company dividends, cna may not be able to fund its working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. due to the intense competitive environment in which cna operates, the uncertainty in determining reserves and the potential for cna to take material unfavorable net prior year development in the future, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies, the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future. if cna property and casualty insurance financial strength ratings are downgraded below current levels, cna business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets, and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. 25 table of contents in addition, it is possible that a lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. cna has entered into several settlement agreements and assumed reinsurance contracts that require collateralization of future payment obligations and assumed reserves if its ratings or other specific criteria fall below certain thresholds. the ratings triggers are generally more than one level below cna current ratings. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. worldwide demand for oil and gas, oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic factors significantly affect this level of activity. however, higher or lower commodity demand and prices do not necessarily translate into increased or decreased drilling activity since diamond offshore customers project development time, reserve replacement needs, as well as expectations of future commodity demand and prices all combine to affect demand for diamond offshore rigs. oil and gas prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control, including: worldwide demand for oil and gas; the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; the worldwide economic environment or economic trends, such as recessions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, commonly called opec, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities in the middle east, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; civil unrest; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation and refining capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; weather conditions in the united states and elsewhere; natural disasters or incidents resulting from operating hazards inherent in offshore drilling, such as oil spills; the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; development and exploitation of alternative fuels or energy sources; 26 table of contents competition for customers drilling budgets from land-based energy markets around the world; domestic and foreign tax policy; and advances in exploration and development technology. diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, and oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. consistent with industry practice, diamond offshore contracts with its customers generally contain contractual rights to indemnity from its customer for, among other things, pollution originating from the well, while diamond offshore retains responsibility for pollution originating from the rig. however, diamond offshore contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by itself, its subcontractors and/or suppliers and diamond offshore customers may dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, pollution and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable when they are determined to be the result of criminal acts. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. moreover, insurance costs across the industry have increased following the macondo incident and, in the future, certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly and may become less available or not available at all. diamond offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. however, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will necessarily be financially able to indemnify diamond offshore against all of these risks. in addition, no assurance can be made that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. diamond offshore industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. some of diamond offshore competitors may have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in the past and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job; however, rig availability and location, a drilling contractor safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. 27 table of contents diamond offshore industry has historically been cyclical. there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates, followed by periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such business cycles. periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idle for long periods of time. in response to a contraction in demand for certain types of its drilling rigs, primarily shallow water jack-up rigs, diamond offshore has cold stacked eight rigs as of the date of this report. diamond offshore also may be required to idle additional rigs or to enter into lower rate contracts. prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. significant new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs could also intensify price competition. based on analyst reports, diamond offshore believes that there are approximately 77 jack-up rigs and 96 floaters on order and scheduled for delivery between 2012 and 2018, with approximately half of these rigs scheduled for delivery in the next two years. the resulting increases in rig supply could be sufficient to depress rig utilization and intensify price competition from both existing competitors, as well as new entrants into the offshore drilling market. not all of the rigs currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may further intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. the majority of the floaters on order are dynamically positioned drilling rigs, which further increases competition with diamond offshore fleet in certain circumstances, depending on customer requirements. in brazil, petrobras, which accounted for approximately 35% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2011 and, as of february 1, 2012, accounted for approximately $3.7 billion of contract drilling backlog through 2016 and to which ten of diamond offshore floaters are currently contracted, has announced plans to construct locally 33 new deepwater drilling rigs to be delivered beginning in 2015. these new drilling rigs would increase rig supply and could intensify price competition in brazil as well as other markets as they enter the market, would compete with, and could displace, diamond offshore deepwater and ultra-deepwater floaters coming off contract and could materially adversely affect diamond offshore utilization rates, particularly in brazil. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. as of february 1, 2012, diamond offshore contract drilling backlog was approximately $8.6 billion for contracted future work extending, in some cases, until 2019. generally, contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, diamond offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that it will be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond its control or that diamond offshore will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement in cases where one does not currently exist. in addition, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be able to or willing to fulfill their contractual commitments. diamond offshore inability to perform under its contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements or its customers inability to fulfill their contractual commitments may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. diamond offshore relies heavily on a relatively small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer and/or a dispute that leads to the loss of a customer could have a material adverse impact on its financial results. diamond offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. in 2011, diamond offshore five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for 62% of its consolidated revenues. diamond offshore expects petrobras and ogx, which accounted for approximately 35% and 14% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2011, to continue to be significant customers in 2012. diamond offshore contract drilling backlog, as of the date of this report, includes $1.3 billion, or 51% of its contracted backlog for 2012, which is attributable to contracts with petrobras and ogx for operations offshore brazil. while it is normal for diamond offshore customer base to change over time as work programs are completed, the loss of any major customer may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. 28 table of contents the terms of diamond offshore drilling contracts may limit its ability to attain profitability in a declining market or to benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market. the duration of offshore drilling contracts is generally determined by customer requirements and, to a lesser extent, the respective management strategies of the offshore drilling contractors. in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors generally prefer longer term contracts, but often at flat or slightly lower dayrates, to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of lower dayrates. conversely, in periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, contractors typically prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly profit from increasing dayrates. in contrast, during these periods customers with reasonably definite drilling programs typically prefer longer term contracts to maintain dayrate prices at a consistent level. an inability to obtain longer term contracts in a declining market or to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market through shorter term contracts may limit diamond offshore profitability. contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability on those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs incurred by diamond offshore. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond diamond offshore control. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in diamond offshore operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may be unable to recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore drilling contracts may be terminated due to events beyond its control. diamond offshore customers may terminate some of their term drilling contracts if the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if diamond offshore has to suspend drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods by tendering contractually specified termination amounts. these termination payments may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. during periods of depressed market conditions, diamond offshore may be subject to an increased risk of its customers seeking to repudiate their contracts. diamond offshore customers ability to perform their obligations under drilling contracts may also be adversely affected by restricted credit markets and the economic downturn. a significant portion of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world that may expose it to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances; piracy or assaults on property or personnel; kidnapping of personnel; expropriation of property or equipment; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; changing political conditions; foreign and domestic monetary policies; 29 table of contents the inability to repatriate income or capital; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; and changing taxation policies. diamond offshore is subject to the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to worldwide anti-bribery laws. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling rigs; import - export quotas or other trade barriers; repatriation of foreign earnings or capital; oil and gas exploration and development; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. these practices may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete in those regions. it is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments may materially and adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete. in addition, the shipment of goods, including the movement of a drilling rig across international borders, subjects diamond offshore to extensive trade laws and regulations. diamond offshore import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations that differ in each of the countries in which diamond offshore operates and often impose record keeping and reporting obligations. the laws and regulations concerning import/export activity and record keeping and reporting requirements are complex and change frequently. these laws and regulations may be enacted, amended enforced and/or interpreted in a manner that could materially and adversely impact diamond offshore operations. shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which may be outside of diamond offshore control. shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled downtime for rigs. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal and civil penalties, economic sanctions, seizure of shipments and/or the contractual withholding of monies owed to diamond offshore, among other things. as of the date of this report, the greatest concentration of diamond offshore operating assets outside the united states was offshore brazil, where it has 14 rigs in its fleet either currently working or contracted to work during 2012. diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts that exposes it to greater risks than it normally assumes. from time to time, diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts with national oil companies, government-controlled entities or others that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes, such as exposure to greater environmental or other liability and more onerous termination provisions giving the customer a right to terminate without 30 table of contents cause or upon little or no notice. upon termination, these contracts may not result in a payment to diamond offshore, or if a termination payment is required, it may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. for example, diamond offshore currently operates, and expects to continue to operate, its drilling rigs offshore mexico for pemex exploraci&oacute;n y producci&oacute;n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico. the terms of these contracts expose diamond offshore to greater environmental liability than it normally assumes, and provide that, among other things, each contract can be terminated by pemex on short notice, contractually or by statute, subject to certain conditions. while diamond offshore believes that the financial terms of these contracts and its operating safeguards in place mitigate these risks, it can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a material negative impact on future operations or financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore international operations, diamond offshore may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that financial hedging arrangements will effectively hedge any foreign currency fluctuation losses that may arise. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond offshore international limited ( doil ), a wholly owned cayman islands subsidiary of diamond offshore. it is diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest future earnings of doil and its foreign subsidiaries to finance foreign activities. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any future earnings generated by doil, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax. should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes. rig conversions, upgrades or new builds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore may undertake to add new capacity through conversions or upgrades to existing rigs or through new construction, such as its three new, ultra-deepwater drillships under construction and its construction of the ocean onyx . projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; weather interferences; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; customer acceptance delays; shipyard failures or unavailability; and failure or delay of third party service providers and labor disputes. 31 table of contents failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of contract drilling backlog and revenue to diamond offshore. if a drilling contract is terminated under these circumstances, diamond offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract with equally favorable terms. diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. because the amount of insurance coverage available to diamond offshore has been limited, and the cost for such coverage is substantial, diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. this results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. risks related to us and our subsidiary, highmount exploration &amp; production llc highmount may not be able to replace reserves and sustain production at current levels. replacing reserves is risky and uncertain and requires significant capital expenditures. highmount success depends largely upon its ability to find, develop or acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable. unless highmount replaces the reserves produced through successful development, exploration or acquisition, its proved reserves will decline over time. highmount may not be able to successfully find and produce reserves economically in the future or to acquire proved reserves at acceptable costs. highmount makes a substantial amount of capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of reserves. highmount expects to fund its capital expenditures with cash from its operating activities. if highmount cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund its capital expenditure budget, there can be no assurance that financing will be available or available at favorable terms to meet those requirements. estimates of natural gas and oil reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. estimating the volume of proved natural gas and oil reserves is a complex process and is not an exact science because of numerous uncertainties inherent in the process. the process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. the extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. the process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. actual future production, commodity prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable reserves most likely will vary from highmount estimates. any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and present value of highmount reserves. in addition, highmount may adjust estimates of proved reserves upward or downward to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing commodity prices and prevailing development expenses. the timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. in addition, the 10% discount factor, used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate representation of their value. if commodity prices remain depressed, highmount may be required to take additional write-downs of the carrying values of its properties. highmount may be required, under full cost accounting rules, to write-down the carrying value of its natural gas and oil properties. a number of factors could result in a write-down, including continued low commodity prices, a substantial downward adjustment to estimated proved reserves, a substantial increase in estimated development costs, or deterioration in exploration results. it is difficult to predict future changes in gas prices. however, the abundance of natural gas supply discoveries over the last few years would generally indicate a bias toward downward pressure on 32 table of contents prices. highmount utilizes the full cost method of accounting for its exploration and development activities. under full cost accounting, highmount is required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. the ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or ceiling, of the book value of highmount natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at the required rate of 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges, calculated using the average first day of the month price for the preceding 12-month period. if the net book value of highmount exploration and production ( e&amp;p ) properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability) exceeds its ceiling limitation, highmount will impair or write-down the book value of its e&amp;p properties. a write-down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas and oil prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. depending on the magnitude of any future impairment, a ceiling test write-down could significantly reduce highmount income, or produce a loss. natural gas, oil and other commodity prices are volatile. the commodity price highmount receives for its production heavily influences its revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. if the current low price environment for natural gas continues, highmount results of operations will be lower as well. highmount is subject to risks due to frequent and possibly substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. ngl prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. in the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and highmount expects this volatility to continue. the markets and prices for natural gas and oil depend upon factors beyond highmount control. these factors include, among others, economic and market conditions, domestic production and import levels, storage levels, basis differentials, weather, government regulations and taxation. lower commodity prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that highmount can produce economically. highmount engages in commodity price hedging activities. the extent of highmount commodity price risk is related to the effectiveness and scope of highmount hedging activities. to the extent highmount hedges its commodity price risk, highmount will forego the benefits it would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in its favor. furthermore, because highmount has entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of its natural gas and oil production, highmount will continue to have direct commodity price risk on the unhedged portion. highmount actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than highmount estimates at the time it enters into derivative transactions for that period. as a result, highmount hedging activities may not be as effective as highmount intends in reducing the volatility of its cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of cash flows. in addition, even though highmount management monitors its hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement or if the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline may not be able to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long term basis. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to market risk when its transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or on a long term basis. key drivers that influence the rates and terms of boardwalk pipeline transportation contracts include the current and anticipated basis differentials between physical locations on its pipeline systems, which can be affected by, among other things, the availability and supply of natural gas, competition from other pipelines, including pipelines under development, available capacity, storage inventories, regulatory developments, weather and general market demand in the respective areas. the new sources of natural gas that have been identified throughout the u.s. have created changes in pricing dynamics between supply basins, pooling points and market areas. as a result of the increase in overall pipeline capacity and the new sources of supply, basis spreads on boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems have narrowed over the past several years. basis spreads have impacted, and will 33 table of contents continue to impact, the rates boardwalk pipeline can negotiate with its customers on contracts due for renewal for firm transportation services, especially the rates it can charge for interruptible and short term firm transportation services. boardwalk pipeline needs to maintain authority from phmsa to operate portions of its pipeline systems at higher than normal operating pressures. boardwalk pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers which utilize the design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, assuming that boardwalk pipeline operates those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures (up to 0.80 smys). boardwalk pipeline has authority from phmsa to operate those pipeline assets at such higher pressures, however, phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on its pipeline assets and could incur significant additional costs to re-obtain such authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to ferc rate-making policies which could limit boardwalk pipeline ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline is subject to extensive regulations relating to the rates it can charge for its transportation and storage operations. for cost-based services, ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge. the basic elements that ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to recover all of its costs through existing or future rates. customers or ferc can challenge the existing rates on any of its pipelines. such a challenge against boardwalk pipeline could adversely affect its ability to establish reasonable transportation rates, to charge rates that would cover future increases in boardwalk pipeline costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. if boardwalk pipeline were to file a rate case or defend its rates in a proceeding commenced by a customer or ferc, boardwalk pipeline would be required, among other things, to establish that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in boardwalk pipeline cost of service is just and reasonable. under current ferc policy, since boardwalk pipeline is a limited partnership and does not pay u.s. federal income taxes, this would require boardwalk pipeline to show that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to federal income taxation. to support such a showing, boardwalk pipeline general partner may elect to require owners of boardwalk pipeline units to re-certify their status as being subject to u.s. federal income taxation on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline or may attempt to provide other evidence. boardwalk pipeline can provide no assurance that the evidence it might provide to ferc will be sufficient to establish that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to u.s. federal income tax liability on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline jurisdictional pipelines. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to make such a showing, ferc could disallow a substantial portion of the income tax allowance included in the determination of the maximum rates that may be charged by boardwalk pipeline, which could result in a reduction of such maximum rates from current levels. continued development of new supply sources impacts demand for boardwalk pipeline services. supplies of natural gas in production areas that are closer to key end-user market areas than boardwalk pipeline supply sources may compete with gas originating in production areas connected to boardwalk pipeline system. for example, the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio, may cause gas in supply areas connected to boardwalk pipeline system to be diverted to market areas other than boardwalk pipeline traditional market areas and may adversely affect capacity utilization on boardwalk pipeline systems and its ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows. in addition, natural gas supplies from the rocky mountains and canada may compete with and displace volumes from the gulf coast and mid-continent supply sources where boardwalk pipeline is located, which may also adversely affect boardwalk pipeline transportation volumes and the rates it can charge for its services. 34 table of contents boardwalk pipeline depends on certain key customers for a significant portion of its revenues. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. boardwalk pipeline largest customer in terms of revenue, devon gas services, lp, represented over 12% of boardwalk pipeline 2011 revenues and boardwalk pipeline expects this customer to account for more than 10% of its 2012 revenues. for 2011, boardwalk pipeline top ten customers comprised approximately 47% of its revenues. boardwalk pipeline may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts with key customers on favorable terms which could materially reduce its contracted transportation volumes and the rates it can charge for its services. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by boardwalk pipeline to them under certain no-notice and parking and lending services. ferc gas tariffs only allow boardwalk pipeline to require limited credit support in the event that transportation customers are unable to pay for its services. if any of boardwalk pipeline significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by boardwalk pipeline or contracted for with boardwalk pipeline, or to repay the gas they owe boardwalk pipeline, it could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business. in addition, as contracts expire, the credit or financial failure of any of boardwalk pipeline customers could also result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity. boardwalk pipeline may incur higher than expected costs to maintain its pipeline systems. boardwalk pipeline incurs substantial costs for ongoing maintenance of its pipeline systems and related facilities, some of which reflect increased regulatory requirements applicable to all interstate pipelines, including the pipeline integrity programs monitored by phmsa. these costs may be capitalized or expensed, depending on the nature of the activity, and include those incurred for pipeline integrity management activities, equipment overhauls, general maintenance and repairs. although boardwalk pipeline expects to complete the implementation of its current pipeline integrity program by the end of 2012, it could continue to incur substantial capital and operating expenditures beyond 2012 relating to the integrity and safety of its pipelines. in addition, there is a risk that new regulations associated with pipeline safety and integrity issues will be adopted that could require boardwalk pipeline to incur additional expenditures in the future. boardwalk pipeline continues to pursue complex expansion projects which involve significant risks. boardwalk pipeline may undertake large development projects in the future as it continues to pursue its growth strategy, including projects in new market areas or product lines. the successful completion of such projects, and the returns boardwalk pipeline may realize from those projects after completion, are subject to many significant risks, including cost overruns, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, difficult construction conditions, including adverse weather conditions, delays in obtaining key materials, shortages of qualified labor, and escalating costs of labor and materials, particularly in the event there is a high level of construction activity in the pipeline industry at that time. as a result, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to complete future projects on the expected terms, cost or schedule, or at all. in addition, boardwalk pipeline cannot be certain that, if completed, it will be able to operate these projects, or that they will perform in accordance with expectations. other areas of boardwalk pipeline business may suffer as a result of the diversion of management attention and other resources from other business concerns to its projects. any of these factors could impair boardwalk pipeline ability to realize the benefits anticipated from the projects. boardwalk pipeline future growth could be limited. during the past several years, boardwalk pipeline completed a number of large development projects to enlarge and enhance its pipeline and storage systems. boardwalk pipeline plans to continue to grow and diversify its business by among other things investing in new assets through acquisition, developing a broader midstream service capability and accessing new markets such as the marcellus shale. boardwalk pipeline ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flow per unit will depend, in part, on its ability to close and execute on accretive projects. boardwalk pipeline might not complete these large projects for any of the following reasons: 35 table of contents inability to identify opportunities with favorable projected financial returns; inefficiencies and complexities that can occur because of unfamiliarity with new product lines or new markets; inability to raise financing for identified opportunities; or inability to secure sufficient commitments from potential customers due to competition from other companies or for other reasons. significant changes in energy prices could affect natural gas market supply and demand, or potentially reduce the competitiveness of natural gas compared with other forms of energy available to boardwalk pipeline customers, which could reduce system throughput and adversely affect boardwalk pipeline revenues and available cash. boardwalk pipeline is currently experiencing extraordinarily low natural gas prices, which are being driven by the abundance of supply and increased infrastructure. due to the natural decline in traditional gas production connected to boardwalk pipeline system, boardwalk pipeline success depends on its ability to obtain access to new sources of natural gas, which is dependent on factors beyond its control including the price level of natural gas. in general terms, the price of natural gas fluctuates in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors, including: economic conditions; weather conditions, seasonal trends and hurricane disruptions; the relationship between the available supplies and the demand for natural gas; new supply sources; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; storage inventory levels; the price and availability of other forms of energy; the effect of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of, and changes in, governmental regulation, for example greenhouse gas legislation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas and other commodities. it is difficult to predict future changes in gas prices. however, the abundance of natural gas supply discoveries over the last few years would generally indicate a bias toward downward pressure on prices. downward movement in gas prices could negatively impact producers in nontraditional supply areas such as the barnett shale, the bossier sands, the cana woodford shale, the fayetteville shale and the haynesville shale, including producers who have contracted for capacity with boardwalk pipeline. significant financial difficulties experienced by boardwalk pipeline producer customers could impact their ability to pay for services rendered or otherwise reduce their demand for boardwalk pipeline services. high natural gas prices may result in a reduction in the demand for natural gas. a reduced level of demand for natural gas could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems, reduce the demand for boardwalk pipeline services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire. 36 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the assets and businesses of certain of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism, including increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of oil and gas, could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services, boardwalk pipeline transportation, gathering and storage services and highmount exploration and production activities. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which impose or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate its business, including: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; limitations on the ability of cna insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and is generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. 37 table of contents diamond offshore. the drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or may significantly limit drilling activity. in the aftermath of the macondo well blowout in april of 2010 and the subsequent investigation into the causes of the event, new rules for oil and gas operations on the outer continental shelf have been implemented, including new standards for well design, casing and cementing and well control procedures, as well as rules requiring operators to systematically identify risks and establish safeguards against those risks through a comprehensive safety and environmental management system ( sems ). new regulations may continue to be announced, including rules regarding employee training, engaging personnel in safety management and requiring third party audits of sems programs. diamond offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking, nor is it able to predict the future impact of these events on operations. additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of diamond offshore operations, and escalating costs borne by its customers could reduce exploration activity in the gom and therefore demand for its services. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore operations by limiting drilling opportunities. highmount. all of highmount operations are conducted onshore in the united states. the u.s. oil and gas industry, and highmount operations, are subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. such regulation includes requirements with respect to, among other things: permits to drill and to conduct other operations; provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations; the location of wells; the method of drilling and completing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; the valuation and payment of royalties; the size of drilling and spacing units (regarding the density of wells which may be drilled in a particular area); the unitization or pooling of natural gas and oil properties; maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells; venting or flaring of natural gas; the ratability of production and the operation of gathering systems and related assets. changes in these regulations, which highmount cannot predict, could be harmful to highmount business and results of operations. the conference committee report for the department of the interior, environment, and related agencies appropriations act for fiscal year 2010 requested the epa to conduct a study of hydraulic fracturing, particularly the relationship between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. hydraulic fracturing is a technique commonly used by oil and gas exploration companies, including highmount, to stimulate the production of oil and natural gas by injecting fluids and sand into underground wells at high pressures, causing fractures or fissures in the geological formation which allow oil and gas to flow more freely. in recent years, concerns have been raised that the fracturing process and disposal of drilling fluids may contaminate underground sources of drinking water. several bills were introduced in the 111 th and 112 th congress seeking federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, which has historically been regulated at the state level, though none of the proposed legislation was passed into law. indications are that similar bills will continue to be introduced in the current congress. if hydraulic fracturing is banned or significantly restricted by federal regulation or otherwise, it could impair highmount ability to economically drill new wells, which would reduce its production, revenues and profitability. highmount owns and operates gas gathering lines and related facilities which are regulated by the dot and state agencies with respect to safety and operating conditions. phmsa has established minimum federal safety standards for certain gas gathering lines. phmsa has indicated that changes to the current regulatory framework are needed to address gas exploration and production activities. if implemented, the new changes could impact highmount ability to transport some of its natural gas or cause highmount to incur additional costs. 38 table of contents boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc and the dot among other federal and state authorities. in addition to ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, federal regulations extend to pipeline safety, operating terms and conditions of service, the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer, construction or abandonment of facilities, accounting and record keeping, and relationships and transactions with affiliated companies. these regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, including by increasing the lead times to develop projects, offer new services, or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, many of which have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. highmount is also subject to extensive environmental regulation in the conduct of its business, particularly related to the handling and disposal of drilling and production waste products, water and air pollution control procedures, and the remediation of petroleum-product contamination. we are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. as awareness of climate change issues increases, governments around the world are beginning to address the matter. this may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our subsidiaries and their suppliers and customers. we and our subsidiaries may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and related services provided by our energy subsidiaries. governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas. in addition, changing global weather patterns have been associated with extreme weather events and could change longer-term natural catastrophe trends, including increasing the frequency and severity of hurricanes and other natural disasters which could increase future catastrophe losses at cna and damage to property, disruption of business and higher operating costs at diamond offshore, boardwalk pipeline, highmount and loews hotels. there is currently no federal regulation that limits ghg emissions in the u.s. however, several bills were introduced in congress in recent years that would regulate u.s. ghg emissions under a cap and trade system. although these bills were not passed into law, some regulation of that type may be enacted in the u.s. in the near future. in addition, in 2009 the epa adopted regulations under the clean air act requiring the monitoring and reporting of annual ghg emissions by operators of facilities that emit more than 25,000 metric tons of ghg per year, which includes boardwalk pipeline and highmount. numerous states and several regional multi-state climate initiatives have announced or adopted plans to regulate ghg emissions, though the state programs vary widely. the establishment of a ghg reporting system and registry may be a first step toward broader regulation of ghg emissions. compliance with future laws and regulations could impose significant costs on affected companies or adversely affect the demand for and the cost to produce and transport hydrocarbon-based fuel, which would adversely affect the businesses of our energy subsidiaries. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, natural gas and oil properties at highmount, pipeline equipment at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. the goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit fair value as of the testing date. we calculate the fair value of our reporting units (each of our principal operating subsidiaries) based on estimates of future discounted cash flows, which reflect management judgments and 39 table of contents assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, future industry conditions and operations and other factors. asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits. we are currently a defendant in two such lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and equity. we do not expect that the separation will alter the legal exposure of either entity with respect to tobacco-related claims. we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes (inclusive of credit spread) by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. 92 table of contents the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2011 and 2010 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $455 million and $425 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $505 million and $464 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010. highmount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $300 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor on a portion of its $700 million variable rate credit facility. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate at an effective rate of 3.4%. at december 31, 2011, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase interest expense by approximately $10 million on an annual basis. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2011 and 2010, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in australian dollars, canadian dollars, british pounds, brazilian reais and the european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2011 and 2010, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2011 and 2010. the impact of a change in commodity prices on the company non-trading commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 93 table of contents boardwalk pipeline has established credit policies in the pipeline tariffs which are intended to minimize credit risk in accordance with ferc policies and actively monitors this portion of its business. boardwalk pipeline credit exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, as well as volumes owed by customers for imbalances or gas lent by boardwalk pipeline to them, generally under pal and no-notice services. natural gas price volatility can materially increase credit risk related to gas loaned to customers. if any significant customer of boardwalk pipeline should have credit or financial problems resulting in a delay or failure to repay the gas they owe to boardwalk pipeline, this could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. as of december 31, 2011, the amount of gas loaned out by boardwalk pipeline or owed to boardwalk pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 8.3 trillion british thermal units (tbtu). assuming an average market price during december 2011 of $3.14 per million british thermal unit (mmbtu), the market value of this gas at december 31, 2011, would have been approximately $26 million. as of december 31, 2010, the amount of gas loaned out by boardwalk pipeline or owed to boardwalk pipeline due to gas imbalances was approximately 13.0 tbtu. assuming an average market price during december 2010 of $4.21 per mmbtu, the market value of this gas at december 31, 2010, would have been approximately $55 million. the following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2011 2010 2011 2010 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities long $ 590 $ 616 $ (148 ) $ (154 ) short (9 ) (68 ) 2 17 options purchased 33 30 18 3 written (23 ) (10 ) (2 ) 4 interest rate (2): fixed maturities long 109 231 (3 ) (10 ) short (250 ) 5 short term investments 2,092 3,118 other derivatives 8 (3 ) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. 94 table of contents other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2011 2010 2011 2010 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 304 $ 440 $ (76 ) $ (110 ) separate accounts 22 (5 ) limited partnership investments 2,711 2,814 (242 ) (256 ) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) 39,931 37,583 (2,614 ) (2,417 ) short term investments (a) 3,013 3,962 (11 ) (7 ) other invested assets, primarily mortgage loans 258 113 (11 ) (7 ) interest rate swaps and other (b) (76 ) 13 17 other derivative securities (1 ) (1 ) separate accounts (a): fixed maturities 381 405 (15 ) (18 ) short term investments 32 18 foreign exchange (3): forwards short (7 ) 4 (26 ) (26 ) commodities (4): forwards short (b) 42 47 (43 ) (85 ) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(382) and $(362) at december 31, 2011 and 2010. (b) the market risk at december 31, 2011 and 2010 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 95 table of contentsrisk factors. our business faces many risks. we have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the sec or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries before investing in any of their securities. risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims and for future policy benefits. reserves represent cna best estimate at a given point in time. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by cna, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of illness, sickness and diseases contracted. many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on cna part. as trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in so-called long tail or long duration coverages, cna is sometimes required to add to its reserves. this is called unfavorable net prior year 22 table of contents development and results in a charge to earnings in the amount of the added reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. these charges can be substantial. cna is also subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict. examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: the effects of worldwide economic conditions, which have resulted in an increase in the number and size of certain claims including both directors and officers ( d&amp;o ) and errors and omissions ( e&amp;o ) insurance claims related to corporate failures, as well as other coverages; class action litigation relating to claims handling and other practices; and mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to welding rods, benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss, injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals, and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, cna reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. if estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. cna key assumptions used to determine reserves for long term care products and payout annuity contracts could vary significantly from actual experience. cna reserves for long term care products and payout annuity contracts are based on certain key assumptions including morbidity, mortality, policy persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force) and discount rates (which are impacted by expected investment yields). a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in cna reserving may result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting policy obligations, which may require changes to reserves. these assumptions, while based on historical data and industry experience and monitored consistently, are critical bases for reserve estimates and are inherently uncertain. if estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance assumed and ceded and reinsurance reinstatement premiums, if any. as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, additional living expenses, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited 23 table of contents circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. as a result, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. as cna claim experience develops on a specific catastrophe, cna may be required to adjust its reserves, or take unfavorable net prior year development, to reflect revised estimates of the total cost of claims. cna has exposure related to a&amp;ep claims, which could result in material losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer ). if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, cna liabilities for a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion, or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against cna earnings. these charges could be substantial. cna premium writings and profitability are affected by the availability and cost of reinsurance. cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers which could result in higher net incurred losses. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of cna contractual relationship. such action increases the likelihood that cna will not be able to recover amounts due. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if cna is not able to collect the amounts due from reinsurers for any of the foregoing reasons, its net incurred losses will be higher. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies which could result in higher net incurred losses. a portion of cna business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and are reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. as a result cna is exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. if cna is not able to collect the amounts due from policyholders, its incurred losses will be higher. 24 table of contents cna has incurred and may continue to incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from volatility in the capital and credit markets. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit and currency risks, many of which are unpredictable. investment returns are an important part of cna overall profitability. general economic conditions, changes in financial markets such as fluctuations in interest rates, credit conditions and currency, commodity and stock prices, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments and the realization of investment income. further, cna invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed income investments. in addition, limited partnership investments generally present, higher illiquidity than fixed income investments. as a result of all of these factors, cna may not realize an adequate return on its investments, may incur losses on sales of its investments, and may be required to write-down the value of its investments. cna valuation of investments and impairment of securities requires significant judgment which is inherently uncertain. cna exercises significant judgment in analyzing and validating fair values, which are primarily provided by third parties, for securities in its investment portfolio including those that are not regularly traded in active markets. cna also exercises significant judgment in determining whether the impairment of particular investments is temporary or other-than-temporary. the valuation of residential and commercial mortgage and other asset backed securities can be particularly sensitive to fairly small changes in collateral performance. due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these judgments, cna may incur unrealized losses and conclude that other-than-temporary write-downs of its investments are required. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of statutory capital and surplus reported in cna statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as lloyd s, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, cna may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimates or the occurrence of an event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. while we have provided cna with substantial amounts of capital in prior years, we may be restricted in our ability or may not be willing to provide additional capital support to cna in the future. if cna is in need of additional capital, cna may be required to secure this funding from sources other than us. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its working capital needs, are limited by insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary insurance regulator are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by jurisdiction. the formula for the majority of domestic states is the greater of 10% of the prior year statutory surplus or the prior year statutory net income, less the aggregate of all dividends paid during the twelve months prior to the date of payment. some jurisdictions including certain domestic states, however, have an additional stipulation that dividends cannot exceed the prior year earned surplus. if cna is restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving inter-company dividends, cna may not be able to fund its working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. 25 table of contents rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. due to the intense competitive environment in which cna operates, the uncertainty in determining reserves and the potential for cna to take material unfavorable net prior year development in the future, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies, the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future. if cna property and casualty insurance financial strength ratings are downgraded below current levels, cna business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets, and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. cna has entered into several settlement agreements and assumed reinsurance contracts that require collateralization of future payment obligations and assumed reserves if its ratings or other specific criteria fall below certain thresholds. the ratings triggers are generally more than one level below cna current ratings. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. worldwide demand for oil and gas, oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic factors significantly affect this level of activity. however, higher or lower commodity demand and prices do not necessarily translate into increased or decreased drilling activity since diamond offshore customers project development time, reserve replacement needs, as well as expectations of future commodity demand and prices all combine to affect demand for diamond offshore rigs. oil and gas prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control, including: worldwide demand for oil and gas; the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; the worldwide economic environment or economic trends, such as recessions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, commonly called opec, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities in the middle east, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; 26 table of contents civil unrest; the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation and refining capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; weather conditions; natural disasters or incidents resulting from operating hazards inherent in offshore drilling, such as oil spills; the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; development and exploitation of alternative fuels or energy sources; competition for customers drilling budgets from land-based energy markets around the world; domestic and foreign tax policy; and advances in exploration and development technology. diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, and oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. consistent with industry practice, diamond offshore contracts with its customers generally contain contractual rights to indemnity from its customer for, among other things, pollution originating from the well, while diamond offshore retains responsibility for pollution originating from the rig. however, diamond offshore contractual rights to indemnification may be unenforceable or limited due to negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by itself, its subcontractors and/or suppliers and diamond offshore customers may dispute, or be unable to meet, their contractual indemnification obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, pollution and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable when they are determined to be the result of criminal acts. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. moreover, insurance costs across the industry have increased following the macondo incident and, in the future, certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly and may become less available or not available at all. 27 table of contents diamond offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. however, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will necessarily be financially able to indemnify diamond offshore against all of these risks. in addition, no assurance can be made that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. diamond offshore industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. some of diamond offshore competitors may have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in the past and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job; however, rig availability and location, a drilling contractor safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. diamond offshore industry has historically been cyclical. there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates, followed by periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such business cycles. periods of excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in rigs being idle for long periods of time. prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. significant new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs could also intensify price competition. based on analyst reports, diamond offshore believes that there are approximately 67 floaters on order and scheduled for delivery between 2013 and 2016, with approximately 75% of these rigs scheduled for delivery in 2013 and 2014. the resulting increases in rig supply could be sufficient to depress rig utilization and intensify price competition from both existing competitors, as well as new entrants into the offshore drilling market. not all of the rigs currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may further intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. the majority of the floaters on order are dynamically positioned drilling rigs, which further increases competition with diamond offshore fleet in certain circumstances, depending on customer requirements. in brazil, petrobras, which accounted for approximately 33% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2012 and, as of february 1, 2013, accounted for approximately $2.6 billion of contract drilling backlog through 2016 and to which nine of diamond offshore floaters are currently contracted, has announced plans to construct locally 29 new ultra-deepwater drilling units to be delivered beginning in 2015. these new drilling rigs, if built, would increase rig supply and could intensify price competition in brazil as well as other markets as they enter the market, would compete with, and could displace, diamond offshore deepwater and ultra-deepwater floaters coming off contract and could materially adversely affect diamond offshore utilization rates, particularly in brazil. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. as of february 1, 2013, diamond offshore contract drilling backlog was approximately $8.6 billion for contracted future work extending, in some cases, until 2019. generally, contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, diamond offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that it will be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond its control or that diamond offshore will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement in cases where one does not currently exist. in addition, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be able to or 28 table of contents willing to fulfill their contractual commitments. diamond offshore inability to perform under its contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements or its customers inability or unwillingness to fulfill their contractual commitments may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. diamond offshore relies heavily on a relatively small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer and/or a dispute that leads to the loss of a customer could have a material adverse impact on its financial results. diamond offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. in 2012, diamond offshore five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for 62% of its consolidated revenues. diamond offshore expects petrobras and ogx, which accounted for approximately 33% and 12% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2012, to continue to be significant customers in 2013. diamond offshore contract drilling backlog, as of february 1, 2013, includes $1.0 billion, or 36% and $187 million or 7% of its contracted backlog for 2013, which is attributable to contracts with petrobras and ogx for operations offshore brazil. petrobras has announced plans to construct locally, 29 new ultra-deepwater drilling units to be delivered beginning in 2015. these new drilling units, if built, would compete with, and could displace, diamond offshore deepwater and ultra-deepwater floaters coming off contract and could materially adversely affect utilization rates, particularly in brazil. while it is normal for diamond offshore customer base to change over time as work programs are completed, the loss of, or a significant reduction in the number of rigs contracted with, any major customer may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. the terms of diamond offshore drilling contracts may limit its ability to attain profitability in a declining market or to benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market. the duration of offshore drilling contracts is generally determined by customer requirements and, to a lesser extent, the respective management strategies of the offshore drilling contractors. in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors generally prefer longer term contracts, but often at flat or slightly lower dayrates, to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of lower dayrates. conversely, in periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, contractors typically prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly profit from increasing dayrates. in contrast, during these periods customers with reasonably definite drilling programs typically prefer longer term contracts to maintain dayrate prices at a consistent level. an inability to obtain longer term contracts in a declining market or to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market through shorter term contracts may limit diamond offshore profitability. contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability on those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs incurred by diamond offshore. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond diamond offshore control. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in diamond offshore operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may be unable to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore drilling contracts may be terminated due to events beyond its control. diamond offshore customers may terminate some of their term drilling contracts if the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if diamond offshore has to suspend drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods by tendering contractually specified termination amounts. these termination payments may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. during periods of depressed market conditions, diamond offshore may be subject to an increased risk of its customers seeking to repudiate their contracts. diamond offshore 29 table of contents customers ability to perform their obligations under drilling contracts may also be adversely affected by restricted credit markets and economic downturns. if diamond offshore customers cancel some of their contracts, and diamond offshore is unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if contracts are disputed or suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of contracts are renegotiated, it could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant portions of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world which may expose it to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: war and civil disturbances; piracy or assaults on property or personnel; kidnapping of personnel; expropriation or nationalization of property or equipment; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; changing political conditions; imposition of trade barriers or import-export quotas; foreign and domestic monetary policies; the inability to repatriate income or capital; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; difficulties in supplying, repairing or replacing equipment or transporting personnel in remote locations; difficulties in obtaining visas or work permits for employees on a timely basis; and changing taxation policies. diamond offshore is subject to the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to worldwide anti-bribery laws. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling rigs; import - export quotas or other trade barriers; repatriation of foreign earnings or capital; oil and gas exploration and development; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and 30 table of contents use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. these practices may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete in those regions. it is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments may materially and adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete. in addition, the shipment of goods, including the movement of a drilling rig across international borders, subjects diamond offshore to extensive trade laws and regulations. diamond offshore import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations that differ in each of the countries in which diamond offshore operates and often impose record keeping and reporting obligations. the laws and regulations concerning import/export activity and record keeping and reporting requirements are complex and change frequently. these laws and regulations may be enacted, amended enforced and/or interpreted in a manner that could materially and adversely impact diamond offshore operations. shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which may be outside of diamond offshore control. shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled downtime for rigs. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal and civil penalties, economic sanctions, seizure of shipments and/or the contractual withholding of monies owed to diamond offshore, among other things. diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts that exposes it to greater risks than it normally assumes. from time to time, diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts with national oil companies, government-controlled entities or others that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes, such as exposure to greater environmental or other liability and more onerous termination provisions giving the customer a right to terminate without cause or upon little or no notice. upon termination, these contracts may not result in a payment to diamond offshore, or if a termination payment is required, it may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. for example, diamond offshore currently operates, and expects to continue to operate, its drilling rigs offshore mexico for pemex exploraci&oacute;n y producci&oacute;n ( pemex ), the national oil company of mexico. the terms of these contracts expose diamond offshore to greater environmental liability than it normally assumes, and provide that, among other things, each contract can be terminated by pemex on short notice, contractually or by statute, subject to certain conditions. while diamond offshore believes that the financial terms of these contracts and its operating safeguards in place mitigate these risks, it can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a material negative impact on future operations or financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore international operations, diamond offshore may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that financial hedging arrangements will effectively hedge any foreign currency fluctuation losses that may arise. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond offshore international limited ( doil ), a wholly owned cayman islands subsidiary of diamond offshore. it is diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest future earnings of doil and its foreign subsidiaries to finance foreign activities. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any future earnings generated by doil, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax. should a future 31 table of contents distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes. rig conversions, upgrades or new builds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore adds new capacity through conversions or upgrades to existing rigs or through new construction, such as its four, ultra-deepwater drillships under construction and its construction of the ocean apex and ocean onyx . projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; weather interferences or storm damage; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; availability of suppliers to recertify equipment for enhanced regulations; customer acceptance delays; shipyard failures or unavailability; and failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of contract drilling backlog and revenue to diamond offshore. if a drilling contract is terminated under these circumstances, diamond offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract with equally favorable terms. diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. because the amount of insurance coverage available to diamond offshore has been limited, and the cost for such coverage is substantial, diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. this results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline may not be able to maintain or replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis. each year, a portion of boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or for the same term as the expiring contracts. a key driver that influences the rates and terms of its transportation contracts is the current and anticipated basis spreads - generally meaning the difference in the price of natural gas at receipt and delivery points on its natural gas pipeline systems which influence how much 32 table of contents customers are willing to pay to transport gas between those points. basis differentials can be affected by, among other things, the availability and supply of natural gas, competition from other pipelines, including pipelines under development, available transportation and storage capacity, storage inventories, regulatory developments, weather and general market demand in markets served by its pipeline systems. as new sources of natural gas have been identified and developed, changes in pricing dynamics between supply basins, pooling points and market areas have occurred. as a result of the increase in overall pipeline capacity and the new sources of supply, basis spreads on its pipeline systems have narrowed over the past several years, reducing the transportation rates boardwalk pipeline can negotiate with its customers on contracts due for renewal for its firm transportation services. the narrowing of basis differentials has also adversely affected the rates it is able to charge for its interruptible and short term firm transportation services. as a result, the rates boardwalk pipeline is able to obtain on renewals of expiring contracts are generally lower than those under the expiring contracts, which adversely impacts its revenues and distributable cash. the development of large new gas supply basins in the u.s. and the overall increase in the supply of natural gas created by such development can significantly affect boardwalk pipeline business. growing supplies of natural gas are being produced in new production areas that are not connected to boardwalk pipeline system and are closer to large end-user market areas than the supply basins connected to its system that traditionally served these markets. for example, gas produced in the marcellus shale in pennsylvania, new york, west virginia and ohio is being shipped to nearby northeast markets such as new york and philadelphia which have traditionally been served by gas produced in gulf coast and mid-continent production areas which are connected to its pipelines. this has caused and may continue to cause gas produced in supply areas connected to its system to be diverted to other market areas which may adversely affect capacity utilization and transportation rates on its systems. in addition, as discussed above, growing supplies of natural gas from developing supply basins, especially shale plays, connected to boardwalk pipeline system have caused and may continue to cause basis spreads to narrow. all of these dynamics continue to impair boardwalk pipeline ability to renew or replace existing contracts or to sell interruptible and short term firm transportation services at attractive rates, which adversely impacts boardwalk pipeline revenues and distributable cash flows. changes in the price of natural gas and ngls impacts supply of and demand for those commodities, which impacts boardwalk pipeline business. natural gas prices in the u.s. are currently lower than historical averages driven by the abundant and growing gas supply discussed above. the prices of natural gas and ngls fluctuates in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors, including: worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions, seasonal trends and hurricane disruptions; the relationship between the available supplies and the demand for natural gas and ngls; new supply sources; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; storage inventory levels; the price and availability of oil and other forms of energy; the effect of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of, and changes in, governmental regulation, new regulations adopted by the epa for example greenhouse gas legislation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, oil and other commodities. 33 table of contents it is difficult to predict future changes in natural gas and ngl prices. however, the economic environment that has existed over the last several years generally indicates a bias toward continued downward pressure on natural gas prices. sustained low natural gas prices could negatively impact producers including those directly connected to boardwalk pipeline pipelines that have contracted for capacity with them. conversely, future increases in the price of natural gas could make alternative energy sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas. a reduced level of demand for natural gas could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems, reduce the demand for its services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire and affect its midstream businesses. boardwalk pipeline may not have sufficient available cash, to continue making distributions to unitholders at the current distribution rate or at all. the amount of cash boardwalk pipeline can distribute to its unitholders, including us, principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations and financing activities and the amount of cash it requires, or determines to use, for other purposes, all of which fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a number of factors. many of these factors are beyond the control of boardwalk pipeline. some of the factors that influence the amount of cash boardwalk pipeline has available for distribution in any quarter include: the level of capital expenditures it makes or anticipates making, including for expansion and growth projects; the cost and form of payment for pending or anticipated acquisitions and growth or expansion projects and the commercial success of any such initiatives; the amount of cash necessary to meet its current or anticipated debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in working capital needs; its ability to borrow funds and/or access capital markets to fund operations or capital expenditures, including acquisitions; restrictions contained in its debt agreements; and fluctuations in cash generated by its operations, including as a result of the seasonality of its business, customer payment issues and general business conditions such as, among others, contract renewals, basis spreads, market rates, and fluctuations in pal revenues. boardwalk pipeline may determine to reduce or eliminate distributions at any time it determines that its cash reserves are insufficient or are otherwise required to fund current or anticipated future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, growth or expansion projects or other business needs. any such reduction would reduce the amount of cash available to us. investments that boardwalk pipeline makes, whether through acquisitions or growth projects, that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce its distributable cash flows. boardwalk pipeline plans to continue to grow and diversify its business by among other things, investing in assets through acquisitions and organic growth projects. its ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to close and execute on accretive acquisitions and projects. any such transaction involves potential risks that may include, among other things: the diversion of management and employees attention from other business concerns; inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and costs, including potential synergies; a decrease in liquidity as a result of boardwalk pipeline using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project; 34 table of contents a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if boardwalk pipeline incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and changes in regulatory requirements. additionally, acquisitions contain the following risks: an inability to integrate successfully the businesses it acquires; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which boardwalk pipeline is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies may exclude from coverage; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas or other products owed by customers for imbalances or product loaned by it to them under certain of its services. for boardwalk pipeline ferc-regulated business, boardwalk pipeline tariffs only allow it to require limited credit support in the event that its transportation customers are unable to pay for its services. if any of its significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by them or contracted for with them, or to repay the product they owe them, it could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business. in addition, as contracts expire, the credit or financial failure of any of its customers could also result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipeline depends on certain key customers for a significant portion of its revenues. the loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in its revenues. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. its largest customer in terms of revenue, devon gas services, lp, represented over 12% of its 2012 revenues. boardwalk pipeline top ten customers comprised approximately 47% of its revenues in 2012. boardwalk pipeline may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts with key customers on favorable terms which could materially reduce its contracted transportation volumes and the rates it can charge for its services. 35 table of contents boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to ferc rate-making policies which could limit its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline is subject to extensive regulations relating to the rates it can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. for boardwalk pipeline cost-based services, ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates it can charge. the basic elements that ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to recover all of its costs, including certain costs associated with pipeline integrity, through existing or future rates. customers or ferc can challenge the existing rates on any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines. such a challenge against them could adversely affect its ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. if any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines under ferc jurisdiction were to file a rate case, or if they have to defend their rates in a proceeding commenced by a customer or ferc, boardwalk pipeline would be required, among other things, to establish that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in its cost of service is just and reasonable. under current ferc policy, since it is a limited partnership and does not pay u.s. federal income taxes, this would require it to show that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to federal income taxation. to support such a showing, boardwalk pipeline general partner may elect to require owners of its units to re-certify their status as being subject to u.s. federal income taxation on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline or may attempt to provide other evidence. boardwalk pipeline can provide no assurance that the evidence it might provide to ferc will be sufficient to establish that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to u.s. federal income tax liability on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline jurisdictional pipelines. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to make such a showing, ferc could disallow a substantial portion of the income tax allowance included in the determination of the maximum rates that may be charged by its pipelines, which could result in a reduction of such maximum rates from current levels. pipeline safety laws and regulations requiring the performance of integrity management programs or the use of certain safety technologies could subject boardwalk pipeline to increased capital and operating costs and require it to use more comprehensive and stringent safety controls. boardwalk pipeline pipelines are subject to regulation by the dot under the ngpsa with respect to natural gas and the hlpsa with respect to ngls, both as amended. the ngpsa and hlpsa govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of natural gas and ngls pipeline facilities. these amendments have resulted in the adoption of rules by the dot, through phmsa, that require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, correction of identified anomalies and other measures to ensure pipeline safety in high consequence areas, such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage, and commercially navigable waterways. these regulations have resulted in an overall increase in maintenance costs. due to recent highly publicized incidents on certain pipelines in the u.s., it is possible that phmsa may develop more stringent regulations. boardwalk pipeline could incur significant additional costs if new or more stringently interpreted pipeline safety requirements are implemented. the 2011 act was enacted and signed into law in early 2012. under the 2011 act, maximum civil penalties for certain violations have been increased to $200,000 per violation per day, and from a total cap of $1 million to $2 million. in addition, the 2011 act reauthorized the federal pipeline safety programs of phmsa through september 30, 2015, and directs the secretary of transportation to undertake a number of reviews, studies and reports, some of which may result in additional natural gas and hazardous liquids pipeline safety rulemaking. a number of the provisions of the 2011 act have the potential to cause owners and operators of pipeline facilities to incur significant capital expenditures and/or operating costs. 36 table of contents boardwalk pipeline needs to maintain authority from phmsa to operate portions of its pipeline systems at higher than normal operating pressures. boardwalk pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers which utilize the design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, assuming that boardwalk pipeline operates those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures (up to 0.80 of the pipeline smys). boardwalk pipeline has authority from phmsa to operate those pipeline assets at such higher pressures, however phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on its pipeline assets and could incur significant additional costs to re-obtain such authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. risks related to us and our subsidiary, highmount exploration &amp; production llc highmount may not be able to replace reserves and sustain production at current levels. replacing reserves is risky and uncertain and requires significant capital expenditures. highmount success depends largely upon its ability to find, develop or acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable. unless highmount replaces the reserves produced through successful development, exploration or acquisition, its proved reserves will decline over time. highmount may not be able to successfully find and produce reserves economically in the future or to acquire proved reserves at acceptable costs. highmount makes a substantial amount of capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of reserves. highmount net cash flows have been negatively impacted by reduced natural gas and ngl prices as well as increased drilling costs developing highmount oil reserves. if highmount cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund its capital expenditure budget, there can be no assurance that financing will be available or available at favorable terms to meet those requirements. estimates of natural gas and oil reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. estimating the volume of proved natural gas and oil reserves is a complex process and is not an exact science because of numerous uncertainties inherent in the process. the process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. the extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. the process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. actual future production, commodity prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable reserves most likely will vary from highmount estimates. any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and present value of highmount reserves. in addition, highmount may adjust estimates of proved reserves upward or downward to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing commodity prices and prevailing development expenses. the timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. in addition, the 10% discount factor, used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate representation of their value. if commodity prices remain depressed, highmount may be required to take additional write-downs of the carrying values of its properties. highmount may be required, under full cost accounting rules, to write-down the carrying value of its natural gas and oil properties. a number of factors could result in a write-down, including continued low commodity prices, a substantial downward adjustment to estimated proved reserves, a substantial increase in estimated development costs, or deterioration in exploration results. it is difficult to predict future changes in gas prices. however, the abundance of natural gas supply discoveries over the last few years would generally indicate a bias toward downward pressure on prices. highmount utilizes the full cost method of accounting for its exploration and development activities. under full cost accounting, highmount is required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. the ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or ceiling, of the book value of 37 table of contents highmount natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at the required rate of 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges, calculated using the average first day of the month price for the preceding 12-month period. if the net book value of highmount exploration and production ( e&amp;p ) properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability) exceeds its ceiling limitation, highmount will impair or write-down the book value of its e&amp;p properties. highmount recorded a ceiling test impairment charge in each quarter of 2012, totaling $433 million (after taxes) for the year ended december 31, 2012 as a result of declines in natural gas and ngl prices. a write-down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas and oil prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. depending on the magnitude of any future impairment, a ceiling test write-down could significantly reduce highmount income, or produce a loss. natural gas, oil and other commodity prices are volatile. the commodity price highmount receives for its production heavily influences its revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. if the current low price environment for natural gas continues, highmount results of operations will be lower as well. highmount is subject to risks due to frequent and possibly substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. ngl prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. in the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and highmount expects this volatility to continue. the markets and prices for natural gas and oil depend upon factors beyond highmount control. these factors include, among others, economic and market conditions, domestic production and import levels, storage levels, basis differentials, weather, government regulations and taxation. lower commodity prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that highmount can produce economically. highmount engages in commodity price hedging activities. the extent of highmount commodity price risk is related to the effectiveness and scope of highmount hedging activities. to the extent highmount hedges its commodity price risk, highmount will forego the benefits it would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in its favor. furthermore, because highmount has entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of its natural gas and oil production, highmount will continue to have direct commodity price risk on the unhedged portion. highmount actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than highmount estimates at the time it enters into derivative transactions for that period. as a result, highmount hedging activities may not be as effective as highmount intends in reducing the volatility of its cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of cash flows. in addition, even though highmount management monitors its hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement or if the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the assets and businesses of certain of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism, including increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of oil and gas, could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services, boardwalk pipeline transportation, gathering and storage services and highmount exploration and production 38 table of contents activities. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which impose or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate its business. in addition, the lloyd marketplace sets rules under which its members, including cna hardy syndicate operate. these rules and regulations include the following: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; limitations on the ability of cna insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel or change terms and conditions in policies. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and is generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. diamond offshore. the offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant capital expenditures for additional equipment to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity. 39 table of contents in the aftermath of the macondo well blowout in april of 2010 and the subsequent investigation into the causes of the event, new rules have been implemented for oil and gas operations in the gom and in many of the international locations in which diamond offshore operates, including new standards for well design, casing and cementing and well control procedures, as well as rules requiring operators to systematically identify risks and establish safeguards against those risks through a comprehensive safety and environmental management system ( sems ). new regulations may continue to be announced, including rules regarding drilling systems and equipment, such as blowout preventer and well control systems and lifesaving systems as well as rules regarding employee training, engaging personnel in safety management and requiring third party audits of sems programs. such new regulations could require modifications or enhancements to existing systems and equipment, or require new equipment, and could increase diamond offshore operating costs and cause downtime for its rigs if it is required to take any of them out of service between scheduled surveys or inspections, or if it is required to extend scheduled surveys or inspections, to meet any such new requirements. diamond offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking, nor is it able to predict the future impact of these events on operations. additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of diamond offshore operations, and enhanced permitting requirements as well as escalating costs borne by its customers could reduce exploration activity in the gom and therefore demand for its services. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore operations by limiting drilling opportunities. boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc and the dot among other federal and state authorities. in addition to ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, federal regulations extend to pipeline safety, operating terms and conditions of service, the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer, construction or abandonment of facilities, accounting and record keeping, and relationships and transactions with affiliated companies. these regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, including by increasing the lead times to develop projects, offer new services, or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. highmount. all of highmount operations are conducted onshore in the united states. the u.s. oil and gas industry, and highmount operations, are subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. such regulation includes requirements with respect to, among other things: permits to drill and to conduct other operations; provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations; the location of wells; the method of drilling and completing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; the valuation and payment of royalties; the size of drilling and spacing units (regarding the density of wells which may be drilled in a particular area); the unitization or pooling of natural gas and oil properties; maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells; venting or flaring of natural gas; and the ratability of production and the operation of gathering systems and related assets. changes in these regulations, which highmount cannot predict, could be harmful to highmount business and results of operations. hydraulic fracturing is a technique commonly used by oil and gas exploration companies, including highmount, to stimulate the production of oil and natural gas by injecting fluids and sand into underground wells at high pressures, causing fractures or fissures in the geological formation which allow oil and gas to flow more freely. in recent years, concerns have been raised that the fracturing process and disposal of drilling fluids may contaminate underground sources of drinking water. the conference committee report for the department of the interior, environment, and related agencies appropriations act for fiscal year 2010 requested the epa to conduct a study of hydraulic fracturing, particularly the relationship between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. in december of 2012 the epa issued a progress report of the projects the epa is conducting as part of the study. a final draft report is expected to be released for public comment and peer review in 2014. several bills were introduced in the 111 th and 112 th congresses seeking federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, which has historically been regulated at the state level, though none of the proposed legislation was passed into law. similar bills may be introduced in the 40 table of contents current congress and a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. if hydraulic fracturing is banned or significantly restricted by federal regulation or otherwise, it could impair highmount ability to economically drill new wells, which would reduce its production, revenues and profitability. highmount owns and operates gas gathering lines and related facilities which are regulated by the dot and state agencies with respect to safety and operating conditions. phmsa has established minimum federal safety standards for certain gas gathering lines. phmsa has indicated that changes to the current regulatory framework are needed to address gas exploration and production activities. if implemented, the new changes could impact highmount ability to transport some of its natural gas or cause highmount to incur additional costs. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, many of which have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. highmount is subject to extensive environmental regulation in the conduct of its business, particularly related to the handling and disposal of drilling and production waste products, water and air pollution control procedures, and the remediation of petroleum-product contamination. boardwalk pipeline is also subject to laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination and requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. we are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. as awareness of climate change issues increases, governments around the world are beginning to address the matter. this may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our subsidiaries and their suppliers and customers. we and our subsidiaries may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and related services provided by our energy subsidiaries. governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas. in addition, changing global weather patterns have been associated with extreme weather events and could change longer-term natural catastrophe trends, including increasing the frequency and severity of hurricanes and other natural disasters which could increase future catastrophe losses at cna and damage to property, disruption of business and higher operating costs at diamond offshore, boardwalk pipeline, highmount and loews hotels. there is currently no federal regulation that limits ghg emissions in the u.s. however, several bills were introduced in congress in recent years that would regulate u.s. ghg emissions under a cap and trade system. although these bills were not passed into law, some regulation of that type may be enacted in the u.s. in the near future. in addition, in 2009 the epa adopted regulations under the clean air act requiring the monitoring and reporting of annual ghg emissions by operators of facilities that emit more than 25,000 metric tons of ghg per year, which includes boardwalk pipeline and highmount. numerous states and several regional multi-state climate initiatives have announced or adopted plans to regulate ghg emissions, though the state programs vary widely. the establishment of a ghg reporting system and registry may be a first step toward broader regulation of ghg emissions. compliance with future laws and regulations could impose significant costs on affected companies or adversely affect the demand for and the cost to produce and transport hydrocarbon-based fuel, which would adversely affect the businesses of our energy subsidiaries. 41 table of contents any significant interruption in the operation of critical computer systems could materially disrupt operations. we and our subsidiaries have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our businesses. any failure of our or our subsidiaries computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. computer and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including among others, storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, utility outages or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. in addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called cyber attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. any cyber attacks that affect our or our subsidiaries facilities could have a material adverse effect on our and their business or reputation. loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect personal information could result in a materially adverse effect on our operations. we and our subsidiaries rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the united states and abroad. these include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services. if one or more key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may experience a material adverse effect on our or their business or reputation. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, natural gas and oil properties at highmount, pipeline equipment at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. the goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit fair value as of the testing date. we calculate the fair value of our reporting units (each of our principal operating subsidiaries) based on estimates of future discounted cash flows, which reflect management judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, future industry conditions and operations and other factors. asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. 42 table of contents we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and equity. we do not expect that the separation will alter the legal exposure of either entity with respect to tobacco-related claims. we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2012 and 2011 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $498 million and $455 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $543 million and $505 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011. highmount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of 94 table of contents $300 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor on a portion of its $600 million variable rate credit facility. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate at an effective rate of 3.4%. at december 31, 2012, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase interest expense by approximately $9 million on an annual basis. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2012 and 2011, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in australian dollars, canadian dollars, british pounds, brazilian reais and the european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2012 and 2011, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2012 and 2011. the impact of a change in commodity prices on the company non-trading commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 95 table of contents the following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2012 2011 2012 2011 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities long $ 630 $ 590 $ (158 ) $ (148) short (7) (9 ) 2 2 options purchased 19 33 23 18 written (14) (23 ) (42 ) (2) interest rate (2): fixed maturities long 161 109 5 (3) short (77) (7 ) short term investments 2,526 2,092 other derivatives (3) 8 (3 ) (3) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) a decrease in yield rates of 100 basis points. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. 96 table of contents other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2012 2011 2012 2011 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 249 $ 304 $ (62 ) $ (76) limited partnership investments 3,090 2,711 (295 ) (242) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) 42,604 39,931 (2,818 ) (2,614) short term investments (a) 3,309 3,013 (3 ) (11) other invested assets, primarily mortgage loans 418 258 (18 ) (11) interest rate swaps and other (b) (6) 10 13 other derivative securities (3) (1 ) separate accounts: fixed maturities 288 381 (4 ) (15) short term investments 21 32 foreign exchange (3): forwards short 4 (7 ) (27 ) (26) other invested assets 59 (11 ) commodities (4): forwards short (b) 36 42 (48 ) (43) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(490) and $(382) at december 31, 2012 and 2011. (b) the market risk at december 31, 2012 and 2011 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 97 table of contentsrisk factors. our business faces many risks. we have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the sec or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries before investing in any of their securities. risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves which would result in a charge to cna earnings. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims and for future policy benefits. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by cna, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of illness, sickness and diseases contracted. many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on cna part. as trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in so-called long-tail or long duration coverages, cna is sometimes required to add to its reserves. this is called unfavorable net prior year development and results in a charge to earnings in the amount of the added reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. these charges can be substantial. cna is also subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict. examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: uncertainty in future medical costs in workers compensation. in particular, medical cost inflation could be greater than expected due to new treatments, drugs and devices; increased health care utilization; and/or the future costs of health care facilities. in addition, the relationship between workers compensation and 23 table of contents government and private health care providers could change, potentially shifting costs to workers compensation; increased uncertainty related to medical professional liability, medical products liability and workers compensation coverages resulting from the patient protection and affordable care act; significant class action litigation; and mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss, injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, cna reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. if estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. cna key assumptions used to determine reserves for long term care products and payout annuity contracts could vary significantly from actual experience. cna reserves for long term care products are based on key assumptions including morbidity, mortality, policy persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force) and discount rate. these assumptions are critical bases for reserve estimates and, while monitored consistently, are inherently uncertain due to the limited historical data and industry data available to cna, as only a small portion of the long term care policies which have been written to date are in claims paying status, and the potential changing trends in morbidity and mortality over time. assumptions relating to mortality and discount rate also form the basis for reserve determination for payout annuity products. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in cna reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting cna obligations under long term care policies and payout annuity contracts, which may also require changes to its reserves. this risk is more significant for long term care products because the long potential duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. if estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, including changes in assumptions, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, floods, riots, strikes, civil commotion and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance assumed and ceded and reinsurance reinstatement premiums, if any. as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, additional living expenses, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. as a result, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. additionally, the u.s. government currently provides financial protection through the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization 24 table of contents act, which is set to expire december 31, 2014. should that act expire without reauthorization or be reauthorized under materially different terms, cna net exposure to a significant terrorist event could increase. cna has exposure related to a&amp;ep claims, which could result in material losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer ). if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, cna liabilities for a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion, or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against cna earnings. these charges could be substantial. cna premium writings and profitability are affected by the availability and cost of reinsurance. cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers which could result in higher net incurred losses. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. in the past, certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of cna contractual relationship. such action increases the likelihood that cna will not be able to recover amounts due. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if the amounts cna collects from reinsurers are less than the amount recorded for any of the foregoing reasons, its net incurred losses will be higher. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies which could result in higher net incurred losses. a portion of cna business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and are reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. as a result cna is exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. if cna is not able to collect the amounts due from policyholders, its incurred losses will be higher. cna may incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from changes in the financial markets. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit, equity and currency risks, many of which are unpredictable. financial markets are highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, monetary policies, domestic and international geopolitical issues and many other factors. changes in financial 25 table of contents markets including fluctuations in interest rates, credit, equity and currency prices, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments and the realization of investment income. cna has significant holdings in fixed maturity investments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. a decline in interest rates may reduce the returns earned on new fixed maturity investments, thereby reducing cna net investment income, while an increase in interest rates may reduce the value of its existing fixed maturity investments. the value of cna fixed maturity investments is also subject to risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of issuers of the investments cna holds. any such impairments which cna deems to be other-than-temporary would result in a charge to its earnings. in addition, cna invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed maturity investments. limited partnership investments generally provide a lower level of liquidity than fixed maturity or equity investments and therefore may also limit cna ability to withdraw assets. as a result of all of these factors, cna may not earn an adequate return on its investments, may incur losses on the disposition of its investments, and may be required to write-down the value of its investments. cna valuation of investments and impairment of securities requires significant judgment which is inherently uncertain. cna exercises significant judgment in analyzing and validating fair values, which are primarily provided by third parties, for securities in its investment portfolio including those that are not regularly traded in active markets. cna also exercises significant judgment in determining whether the impairment of particular investments is temporary or other-than-temporary. the valuation of residential and commercial mortgage and other asset backed securities can be particularly sensitive to fairly small changes in collateral performance. due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these judgments, cna may incur unrealized losses and conclude that other-than-temporary write-downs of its investments are required. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of statutory capital and surplus reported in cna statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as lloyd s, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, cna may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimates or the occurrence of an event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its working capital needs, are limited by insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary insurance regulator are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by jurisdiction. the formula for the majority of domestic states is the greater of 10% of the prior year statutory surplus or the prior year statutory net income, less the aggregate of all dividends paid during the twelve months prior to the date of payment. some jurisdictions including certain domestic states, however, have an additional stipulation that dividends cannot exceed the prior year earned surplus. if cna is restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving intercompany dividends, cna may not be able to fund its working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. 26 table of contents rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. due to the intense competitive environment in which cna operates, the uncertainty in determining reserves and the potential for cna to take material unfavorable net prior year development in the future, and possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies, the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets, and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. worldwide demand for oil and gas, oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic factors significantly affect this level of activity. however, higher or lower commodity demand and prices do not necessarily translate into increased or decreased drilling activity since diamond offshore customers project development time, reserve replacement needs, as well as expectations of future commodity demand and prices all combine to affect demand for diamond offshore rigs. in addition, the level of offshore drilling activity may be adversely affected if operators reduce or defer new investment in offshore projects or reallocate their drilling budgets away from offshore drilling in favor of shale plays or other land-based energy markets, which could reduce demand for diamond offshore rigs and newbuilds. oil and gas prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control, including: worldwide demand for oil and gas; the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; the worldwide economic environment or economic trends, such as recessions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, commonly called opec, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities in the middle east, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; civil unrest; 27 table of contents the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation and refining capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; weather conditions; natural disasters or incidents resulting from operating hazards inherent in offshore drilling, such as oil spills; the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; development and exploitation of alternative fuels or energy sources; competition for customers drilling budgets from land-based energy markets around the world; laws and regulations relating to environmental or energy security matters, including those addressing the risks of global climate change; domestic and foreign tax policy; and advances in exploration and development technology. diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, and oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. diamond offshore drilling contracts with its customers provide for varying levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities between its customers and diamond offshore with respect to the hazards and risks inherent in, and damages or losses arising out of, its operations, and diamond offshore may not be fully protected. diamond offshore contracts with its customers generally provide that diamond offshore and its customers each assume liability for their respective personnel and property. diamond offshore contracts also generally provide that its customers assume most of the responsibility for and indemnify diamond offshore against loss, damage or other liability resulting from, among other hazards and risks, pollution originating from the well and subsurface damage or loss, while diamond offshore typically retains responsibility for and indemnifies its customers against pollution originating from the rig. however, in certain drilling contracts diamond offshore may not be fully indemnified by its customers for damage to their property and/or the property of their other contractors. in certain contracts diamond offshore may assume liability for losses or damages (including punitive damages) resulting from pollution or contamination caused by negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by diamond offshore, its suppliers and/or subcontractors, generally subject to negotiated caps on a per occurrence basis and/or on an aggregate basis for the term of the contract. in some cases, suppliers or subcontractors who provide equipment or services to 28 table of contents diamond offshore may seek to limit their liability resulting from pollution or contamination. diamond offshore contracts are individually negotiated, and the levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities in them can vary from contract to contract depending on market conditions, particular customer requirements and other factors existing at the time a contract is negotiated. additionally, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be limited or prohibited by applicable law or may not be enforced by courts having jurisdiction, and diamond offshore could be held liable for substantial losses or damages and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities. the indemnification provisions of diamond offshore contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and the laws or courts of certain jurisdictions may enforce such provisions while other laws or courts may find them to be unenforceable, void or limited by public policy considerations, including when the cause of the underlying loss or damage is diamond offshore gross negligence or willful misconduct, when punitive damages are attributable to diamond offshore or when fines or penalties are imposed directly against diamond offshore. the law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to diamond offshore contracts. current or future litigation in particular jurisdictions, whether or not diamond offshore is a party, may impact the interpretation and enforceability of indemnification provisions in its contracts. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore contracts with its customers, suppliers and subcontractors will fully protect it against all hazards and risks inherent in its operations. there can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will be financially able to do so or will otherwise honor their contractual obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, pollution and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable when they are determined to be the result of criminal acts. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. moreover, insurance costs across the industry have increased following the macondo incident and, in the future, certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly and may become less available or not available at all. diamond offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. however, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. diamond offshore industry is highly competitive and cyclical, with intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, none of which at the present time has a dominant market share. some of diamond offshore competitors may have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in the past and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job; however, rig availability and location, a drilling contractor safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. diamond offshore industry has historically been cyclical. there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates, followed by periods of high demand, short rig supply and high dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such business cycles. periods of lower demand or excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in periods of low utilization. during these periods, diamond offshore existing rigs and newbuilds may not obtain contracts for future work and may be idle for long periods of time or may be able to obtain work only under contracts with lower dayrates or less favorable terms. additionally, prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. 29 table of contents significant new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs could also intensify price competition. based on analyst reports, diamond offshore believes that there are approximately 100 floaters on order and scheduled for delivery between 2014 and 2016, with approximately 32% of these rigs scheduled for delivery in 2014. the resulting increases in rig supply could be sufficient to depress rig utilization and intensify price competition from both existing competitors, as well as new entrants into the offshore drilling market. not all of the rigs currently under construction have been contracted for future work, which may further intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. the majority of the floaters on order are dynamically positioned drilling rigs, which further increases competition with diamond offshore fleet in certain circumstances, depending on customer requirements. in brazil, petrobras, which accounted for approximately 34% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2013 and, as of february 5, 2014, accounted for approximately $1.0 billion and $500 million of contract drilling backlog in 2014 and in the aggregate for the years 2015 and 2016 and to which 10 of diamond offshore floaters are currently contracted, has announced plans to construct locally 28 new ultra-deepwater drilling units to be delivered beginning in 2015. these new drilling rigs, if built, would increase rig supply and could intensify price competition in brazil as well as other markets as they enter the market, would compete with, and could displace, both diamond offshore deepwater and ultra-deepwater floaters coming off contract as well as its newbuilds coming to market and could materially adversely affect diamond offshore utilization rates, particularly in brazil. diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts for its existing rigs or obtain contracts for its uncontracted newbuilds. diamond offshore has a number of customer contracts that will expire in 2014 and 2015. additionally, certain of its newbuilds that are expected to come to market during 2014 are contracted on a short term basis or are currently uncontracted. although diamond offshore will seek to secure contracts for these units before construction is completed, its ability to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts, will depend on various factors, including market conditions and the specific needs of its customers. given the highly competitive and historically cyclical nature of the industry, diamond offshore may be required to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts at dayrates that are below, and potentially substantially below, existing dayrates, or may be unable to secure contracts for these units. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. as of february 5, 2014, diamond offshore contract drilling backlog was approximately $6.8 billion for contracted future work extending, in some cases, until 2019. generally, contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, diamond offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that it will be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond its control or that diamond offshore will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement in cases where one does not currently exist. in addition, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be able to or willing to fulfill their contractual commitments. diamond offshore inability to perform under its contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements, or its customers inability or unwillingness to fulfill their contractual commitments, may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. diamond offshore relies heavily on a relatively small number of customers and the loss of a significant customer and/or a dispute that leads to the loss of a customer could have a material adverse impact on its financial results. diamond offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. in 2013, diamond offshore five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for 54% of its consolidated revenues. diamond offshore expects petrobras, which accounted for approximately 34% of diamond offshore consolidated revenues in 2013, to continue to be a significant customer in 2014. diamond offshore contract drilling backlog, as of february 5, 2014, includes $1.0 billion, or 36%, in 2014 and $500 million in aggregate for the years 2015 and 2016, which is attributable to contracts with petrobras for operations offshore brazil. petrobras has announced plans to construct locally, 28 new ultra-deepwater drilling units to be delivered beginning in 2015. these new drilling units, if built, would compete with, and could displace, diamond offshore deepwater and ultra-deepwater floaters coming off contract and could 30 table of contents materially adversely affect utilization rates, particularly in brazil. in addition, if petrobras or another significant customer experiences liquidity constraints or other financial difficulties, it could materially adversely affect diamond offshore utilization rates in brazil or other markets and also displace demand for its other drilling rigs and newbuilds as the resulting excess supply enters the market. while it is normal for diamond offshore customer base to change over time as work programs are completed, the loss of, or a significant reduction in the number of rigs contracted with, any major customer may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. the terms of diamond offshore drilling contracts may limit its ability to attain profitability in a declining market or to benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market. the duration of offshore drilling contracts is generally determined by customer requirements and, to a lesser extent, the respective management strategies of the offshore drilling contractors. in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors generally prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of lower dayrates. conversely, in periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, contractors typically prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly profit from increasing dayrates, while customers with reasonably definite drilling programs typically prefer longer term contracts to maintain dayrate prices at a consistent level. diamond offshore may be exposed to decreasing dayrates if any of its rigs are working under short term contracts during a declining market. likewise, if any of its rigs are committed under long term contracts during an improving market, diamond offshore may be unable to enjoy the benefit of rising dayrates for the duration of those contracts. exposure to falling dayrates in a declining market or the inability to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market through shorter term contracts may limit diamond offshore profitability. contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability on those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs incurred by diamond offshore. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond diamond offshore control. in addition, equipment repair and maintenance expenses fluctuate depending on the type of activity the rig is performing, the age and condition of the equipment and general market factors impacting relevant parts, components and services. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in diamond offshore operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may be unable to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore drilling contracts may be terminated due to events beyond its control. diamond offshore customers may terminate some of their term drilling contracts if the drilling rig is destroyed or lost or if diamond offshore has to suspend drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods by tendering contractually specified termination amounts. these termination payments may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in some cases, because of depressed market conditions, restricted credit markets, economic downturns or other factors beyond diamond offshore control, its customers may repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under diamond offshore contracts with them. any recovery diamond offshore might obtain in these cases may not fully compensate it for the loss of the contract. in any case, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time, which could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if diamond offshore customers cancel some of their contracts or if diamond offshore elects to terminate in the event that a customer fails to perform, and are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if contracts are disputed or suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of diamond offshore contracts are renegotiated, it could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 table of contents significant portions of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with domestic operations. diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world which may expose it to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: war, riot, civil disturbances and acts of terrorism; piracy or assaults on property or personnel; kidnapping of personnel; seizure, expropriation, nationalization, deprivation, malicious damage, or other loss of possession or use of property or equipment; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; disputes and legal proceedings in international jurisdictions; changing social, political and economic conditions; imposition of wage and price controls, trade barriers or import-export quotas; foreign and domestic monetary policies; the inability to repatriate income or capital; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; difficulties in supplying, repairing or replacing equipment or transporting personnel in remote locations; difficulties in obtaining visas or work permits for employees on a timely basis; and changing taxation policies and confiscatory or discriminatory taxation. diamond offshore is subject to the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to worldwide anti-bribery laws. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling rigs; import - export quotas or other trade barriers; repatriation of foreign earnings or capital; oil and gas exploration and development; local content requirements; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. 32 table of contents some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. these practices may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete in those regions. it is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international offshore drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments may materially and adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete. in addition, the shipment of goods, including the movement of a drilling rig across international borders, subjects diamond offshore to extensive trade laws and regulations. diamond offshore import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations that differ in each of the countries in which diamond offshore operates and often impose record keeping and reporting obligations. the laws and regulations concerning import/export activity and record keeping and reporting requirements are complex and change frequently. these laws and regulations may be enacted, amended enforced and/or interpreted in a manner that could materially and adversely impact diamond offshore operations. shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which may be outside of diamond offshore control. shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled downtime for rigs. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal and civil penalties, economic sanctions, seizure of shipments and/or the contractual withholding of monies owed to diamond offshore, among other things. diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts that exposes it to greater risks than it normally assumes. from time to time, diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts with national oil companies, government-controlled entities or others that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes, such as exposure to greater environmental or other liability and more onerous termination provisions giving the customer a right to terminate without cause or upon little or no notice. upon termination, these contracts may not result in a payment to diamond offshore, or if a termination payment is required, it may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. while diamond offshore believes that the financial terms of these contracts and its operating safeguards in place mitigate these risks, it can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a material negative impact on future operations or financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore international operations, diamond offshore may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that financial hedging arrangements will effectively hedge any foreign currency fluctuation losses that may arise. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond offshore international limited ( doil ), a wholly owned cayman islands subsidiary of diamond offshore. it is diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest future earnings of doil and its foreign subsidiaries to finance foreign activities. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any future earnings generated by doil, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax. should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes. 33 table of contents rig conversions, upgrades or newbuilds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore adds new capacity through conversions or upgrades to existing rigs or through new construction, such as its three ultra-deepwater drillships and its harsh environment, ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig under construction and its construction of the ocean apex . projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases or change orders; weather interferences or storm damage; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; disputes with shipyards or suppliers; availability of suppliers to recertify equipment for enhanced regulations; customer acceptance delays; shipyard failures or unavailability; and failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of contract drilling backlog and revenue to diamond offshore. if a drilling contract is terminated under these circumstances, diamond offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract with equally favorable terms. diamond offshore relies on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment, components and parts used in rig operations, conversions, upgrades and construction. diamond offshore reliance on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to provide equipment and services exposes it to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. certain components, parts and equipment that are used in diamond offshore operations may be available only from a small number of suppliers, manufacturers or service providers. the failure of one or more third-party suppliers, manufacturers or service providers to provide equipment, components, parts or services, whether due to capacity constraints, production or delivery disruptions, price increases, quality control issues, recalls or other decreased availability of parts and equipment, is beyond diamond offshore control and could materially disrupt its operations or result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, thereby causing a loss of contract drilling backlog and/or revenue as well as an increase in operating costs. 34 table of contents diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. because the amount of insurance coverage available to diamond offshore has been limited, and the cost for such coverage is substantial, diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. this results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline may not have sufficient available cash to continue making distributions to unitholders at the current distribution rate or at all. the amount of cash boardwalk pipeline has available to distribute to its unitholders, including us, principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations and financing activities and the amount of cash it requires, or determines to use, for other purposes, all of which fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a number of factors. many of these factors are beyond the control of boardwalk pipeline. some of the factors that influence the amount of cash boardwalk pipeline has available for distribution in any quarter include: fluctuations in cash generated by its operations, including as a result of the seasonality of its business, customer payment issues, general business conditions and market conditions, which impact, for example, contract renewals, basis spreads, time period price spreads, market rates, and supply and demand for natural gas and its services; the level of capital expenditures it makes or anticipates making, including for expansion and growth projects; the amount of cash necessary to meet its current or anticipated debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in working capital needs; its ability to borrow funds and/or access capital markets on acceptable terms to fund operations or capital expenditures, including acquisitions; restrictions contained in its debt agreements; and the cost and form of payment for pending or anticipated acquisitions and growth or expansion projects and the timing and commercial success of any such initiatives. there is no guarantee that unitholders will receive quarterly distributions from boardwalk pipeline. boardwalk pipeline distributions are determined each quarter by its board of directors based on the board consideration of its financial position, earnings, cash flow, current and future business needs and other relevant factors at that time. in february of 2014, boardwalk pipeline declared a quarterly distribution of $0.10 per unit, which was less than the quarterly distributions of $0.5325 per unit that boardwalk pipeline has declared and paid in recent periods. boardwalk pipeline may reduce or eliminate distributions at any time it determines that its cash reserves are insufficient or are otherwise required to fund current or anticipated future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, growth or expansion projects, debt repayment or other business needs. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to replace expiring gas transportation and storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long term basis and may not be able to sell short term services at attractive rates or at all due to narrower basis differentials which adversely affect the value of its transportation services and narrowing of price spreads between time periods and reduced volatility which adversely affect boardwalk pipeline storage services. new sources of natural gas continue to be identified and developed in the u.s., including the marcellus and utica shale plays which are closer to the traditional high value markets boardwalk pipeline serves than the supply basins connected to its facilities. as a result, pipeline infrastructure has been and continues to be developed to move gas and ngls from these supply basins to market areas, resulting in changes in pricing dynamics between supply basins, pooling points and market areas. additionally, these new supplies of natural gas have reduced production or slowed production growth from supply areas connected to boardwalk pipeline pipelines and have caused some of 35 table of contents the gas production that is supplied to boardwalk pipeline system to be diverted to other market areas. these factors have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, the value of boardwalk pipeline transportation and storage services and have lowered the volumes boardwalk pipeline has transported on its pipelines, as further discussed below. transportation services: a key market driver that influences the rates and terms of boardwalk pipeline transportation contracts is the current and anticipated basis differentials - generally meaning the difference in the price of natural gas at receipt and delivery points on boardwalk pipeline natural gas pipelines - which influence how much customers are willing to pay to transport gas between those points. basis differentials can be affected by, among other things, the availability and supply of natural gas, the proximity of supply areas to end use markets, competition from other pipelines, including pipelines under development, available transportation and storage capacity, storage inventories, regulatory developments, weather and general market demand in markets served by boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems. as a result of the new sources of supply and related pipeline infrastructure discussed above, basis differentials on boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems have narrowed significantly in recent years, reducing the transportation rates and other contract terms boardwalk pipeline can negotiate with its customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts due for renewal for its firm transportation services. the narrowing of basis differentials has also adversely affected the rates boardwalk pipeline is able to charge for its interruptible and short term firm transportation services. each year, a portion of boardwalk pipeline firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. for the reasons discussed above and elsewhere in this report, in recent periods boardwalk pipeline has renewed many expiring contracts at lower rates and for shorter terms than in the past, which has materially adversely impacted its transportation revenues. boardwalk pipeline expects this trend to continue and therefore may not be able to sell its available capacity, extend expiring contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or for the same term as the expiring contracts, which would continue to adversely affect its business. in 2008 and 2009, boardwalk pipeline placed into service a number of large new pipelines and expansions of its system, including its east texas pipeline, southeast expansion, gulf crossing pipeline and fayetteville and greenville laterals. these projects were supported by firm transportation agreements with anchor shippers, typically having a term of ten years and pricing and other terms negotiated based on then current market conditions, which included wider basis spreads and, correspondingly, higher transportation rates than those prevailing in the current market. as a result, in 2018 and 2019, boardwalk pipeline will have significantly more contract expirations than other years. boardwalk pipeline cannot predict what market conditions will prevail at the time such contracts expire and what pricing and other terms may be available in the marketplace for renewal or replacement of such contracts. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to renew or replace these and other expiring contracts when they expire, or if the terms of any such renewal or replacement contracts are not as favorable as the expiring agreements, boardwalk pipeline revenues and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. storage and pal services: boardwalk pipeline owns and operates substantial natural gas storage facilities. the market for the storage and pal services that it offers is also impacted by the factors discussed above, as well as natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. recently, the market conditions described above have caused time period price spreads to narrow considerably and price volatility of natural gas to decline significantly, reducing the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its storage and pal services and adversely impacting the value of these services. these market conditions together with regulatory changes in the financial services industry have also caused a number of gas marketers, which have traditionally been large consumers of boardwalk pipeline storage and pal services, to exit the market, further impacting the market for those services. boardwalk pipeline expects the conditions described above to continue in 2014 and cannot give assurances they will not continue beyond 2014. these market factors and conditions adversely impact revenues, earnings and distributable cash flow, and could impact boardwalk pipeline on a long term basis. 36 table of contents boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in executing its strategy to grow and diversify its business. boardwalk pipeline relies primarily on the revenues generated from its long-haul natural gas transportation and storage services. as a result, negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on its financial condition and results of operations than if boardwalk pipeline maintained more diverse assets. boardwalk pipeline is pursuing a strategy of growing and diversifying its business through acquisition and development of assets in complementary areas of the midstream energy sector, such as liquids transportation and storage assets, among others. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. in pursuing its growth and diversification strategy, boardwalk pipeline has been pursuing development (together with a joint venture partner) of a large capital project, the bluegrass project, consisting of a pipeline that would deliver ngls from the marcellus and utica shale production areas of pennsylvania, ohio and west virginia to end use markets in the gulf coast area, and constructing new fractionation, liquids storage and export facilities located in the gulf coast region. boardwalk pipeline continues to have ongoing discussions with potential customers regarding commitments that would support constructing this project and has not made any external commitments to proceed with the project. boardwalk pipeline may incur substantial costs in developing this or other projects or otherwise pursuing growth and diversification opportunities; however, boardwalk pipeline can give no assurance that any such project will be completed, in whole or in part, or, if completed, that any such project or acquisition will be on attractive terms or generate a positive return. changes in the prices of natural gas and ngls impacts supply of and demand for those commodities, which impacts boardwalk pipeline business. the prices of natural gas and ngls fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors, including: worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions, seasonal trends and hurricane disruptions; the relationship between the available supplies and the demand for natural gas and ngls; new supply sources; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; storage inventory levels; the price and availability of oil and other forms of energy; the effect of energy conservation measures; the nature and extent of, and changes in, governmental regulation, new regulations adopted by the epa for example greenhouse gas legislation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, oil and other commodities. it is difficult to predict future changes in natural gas and ngl prices. however, the economic environment that has existed over the last several years generally indicates a bias toward continued downward pressure on natural gas prices. sustained low natural gas prices could negatively impact producers, including those directly connected to boardwalk pipeline pipelines that have contracted for capacity with them which could adversely impact revenues, earnings and distributable cash flow. 37 table of contents conversely, future increases in the price of natural gas could make alternative energy sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas. a reduced level of demand for natural gas could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems, reduce the demand for its services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire and affect its midstream businesses. changes in the pipeline safety laws and regulations requiring substantial changes to existing integrity management programs or safety technologies could subject boardwalk pipeline to increased capital and operating costs and require it to use more comprehensive and stringent safety controls. boardwalk pipeline pipelines are subject to regulation by phmsa of the dot under the ngpsa with respect to natural gas and the hlpsa with respect to ngls, both as amended. the ngpsa and hlpsa govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of natural gas and ngls pipeline facilities. these amendments have resulted in the adoption of rules, through phmsa, that require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, correction of identified anomalies and other measures to ensure pipeline safety in high consequence areas, such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. these regulations have resulted in an overall increase in maintenance costs. due to recent highly publicized incidents on certain pipelines in the u.s., it is possible that phmsa may develop more stringent regulations. boardwalk pipeline could incur significant additional costs if new or more stringent pipeline safety requirements are implemented. the 2011 act was enacted and signed into law in early 2012. under the 2011 act, maximum civil penalties for certain violations have been increased to $200,000 per violation per day, and from a total cap of $1 million to $2 million. in addition, the 2011 act reauthorized the federal pipeline safety programs of phmsa through september 30, 2015, and directs the secretary of transportation to undertake a number of reviews, studies and reports, some of which may result in additional natural gas and hazardous liquids pipeline safety rulemaking in 2014 or soon thereafter. a number of the provisions of the 2011 act have the potential to cause owners and operators of pipeline facilities to incur significant capital expenditures and/or operating costs. further, boardwalk pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers which utilize the design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, assuming that boardwalk pipeline operates those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures (up to 0.80 of the pipeline smys). boardwalk pipeline has authority from phmsa to operate those pipeline assets at such higher pressures, however phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on its pipeline assets and could incur significant additional costs to re-obtain such authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. ferc rate-making policies could limit its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc, including the types and terms of services it may offer to customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities, recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. ferc action in any of these areas could adversely affect boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. this regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to ferc regulations. ferc can also deny boardwalk pipeline the right to remove certain facilities from service. ferc also regulates the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. for boardwalk pipeline cost-based services, ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates it can charge. the basic elements that ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to recover all of its costs, including certain costs associated with pipeline integrity, through existing or future rates. 38 table of contents ferc can challenge the existing rates on any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines. such a challenge against them could adversely affect its ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. if any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines under ferc jurisdiction were to file a rate case, or if they have to defend their rates in a proceeding commenced by ferc, boardwalk pipeline would be required, among other things, to establish that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in its cost of service is just and reasonable. under current ferc policy, since it is a limited partnership and does not pay u.s. federal income taxes, this would require it to show that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to federal income taxation. to support such a showing, boardwalk pipeline general partner may elect to require owners of its units to re-certify their status as being subject to u.s. federal income taxation on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline or may attempt to provide other evidence. boardwalk pipeline can provide no assurance that the evidence it might provide to ferc will be sufficient to establish that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to u.s. federal income tax liability on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline jurisdictional pipelines. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to make such a showing, ferc could disallow a substantial portion of the income tax allowance included in the determination of the maximum rates that may be charged by its pipelines, which could result in a reduction of such maximum rates from current levels. investments that boardwalk pipeline makes, whether through acquisitions, growth projects or joint ventures, that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce its distributable cash flows. boardwalk pipeline growth depends on its ability to grow and diversify its business by among other things, investing in assets through acquisitions or joint ventures and organic growth projects. its ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to close and execute on accretive acquisitions and projects. any such transaction involves potential risks that may include, among other things: the diversion of management and employees attention from other business concerns; inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies; a decrease in liquidity as a result of boardwalk pipeline using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project; a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if boardwalk pipeline incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals. additionally, acquisitions contain the following risks: an inability to integrate successfully the businesses it acquires; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which boardwalk pipeline is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies may exclude from coverage; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. 39 table of contents there is no certainty that boardwalk pipeline will be able to complete these acquisitions or projects on schedule, on budget or at all. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas or other products owed by customers for imbalances or product loaned by it to them under certain of its services. for boardwalk pipeline ferc-regulated business, boardwalk pipeline tariffs only allow it to require limited credit support in the event that its transportation customers are unable to pay for its services. if any of its significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by them or contracted for with them, or to repay the product they owe them, it could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business. in addition, as contracts expire, the credit or financial failure of any of its customers could also result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipeline depends on certain key customers for a significant portion of its revenues. the loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in its revenues. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. its largest customer in terms of revenue, devon gas services, lp, represented over 11% of its 2013 revenues. boardwalk pipeline top ten customers comprised approximately 46% of its revenues in 2013. boardwalk pipeline may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts with key customers on favorable terms which could materially reduce its contracted transportation volumes and the rates it can charge for its services. risks related to us and our subsidiary, highmount exploration &amp; production llc highmount may not be able to replace reserves and sustain production. replacing reserves is risky and uncertain and requires significant capital expenditures. highmount success depends largely upon its ability to find, develop or acquire additional reserves that are economically recoverable. highmount investment opportunities have shifted since 2011 from drilling vertical gas wells to produce gas reserves to more expensive exploratory horizontal wells testing and evaluating non-proven oil resources. the shift from drilling predictable vertical gas wells in mature fields to drilling exploratory horizontal oil wells creates greater uncertainty regarding highmount ability to replenish or grow its reserves. unless highmount replaces its reserves that are depleted by production, negative reserve revisions, or otherwise, through successful development, exploration or acquisition, its proved reserves, and therefore its asset base, will decline over time. highmount may not be able to successfully find and produce reserves economically in the future or acquire proved reserves at acceptable costs. highmount makes a substantial amount of capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of reserves and some of those efforts have not, and may in the future not, lead to the successful development of additional reserves, which could result in additional impairment charges, as discussed below, which could be material. highmount net cash flows have been negatively impacted by reduced natural gas and ngl prices as well as increased drilling costs of developing highmount oil reserves. if highmount cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund its capital expenditure budget, there can be no assurance that financing will be available or available at favorable terms to meet those requirements. estimates of natural gas and oil reserves are uncertain and inherently imprecise. estimating the volume of proved natural gas and oil reserves is a complex process and is not an exact science because of numerous uncertainties inherent in the process. the process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. the extent, quality and reliability of this technical data can vary. the process also requires certain economic assumptions, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. 40 table of contents actual future production, commodity prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable reserves most likely will vary from highmount estimates. any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and present value of highmount reserves. in addition, highmount may adjust estimates of proved reserves upward or downward to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, prevailing commodity prices and prevailing development expenses. the timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. in addition, the 10% discount factor, used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most accurate representation of their value. highmount may be required to take additional write-downs of the carrying values of its properties. highmount may be required, under full cost accounting rules, to further write-down the carrying value of its natural gas and oil properties or to impair its other assets, such as its pipeline assets. a number of factors could result in a write-down, including continued low commodity prices, a substantial downward adjustment to estimated proved reserves, a substantial increase in estimated development costs, or additional unsuccessful exploration results. it is difficult to predict future changes in gas prices. however, the abundance of natural gas supply discoveries over the last few years would generally indicate a bias toward downward pressure on prices. highmount utilizes the full cost method of accounting for its exploration and development activities. under full cost accounting, highmount is required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. the ceiling test is an impairment test and generally establishes a maximum, or ceiling, of the book value of highmount natural gas properties that is equal to the expected after tax present value (discounted at the required rate of 10%) of the future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of cash flow hedges, calculated using the average first day of the month price for the preceding 12-month period. if the net book value of highmount exploration and production ( e&amp;p ) properties (reduced by any related net deferred income tax liability) exceeds its ceiling limitation, highmount will impair or write-down the book value of its e&amp;p properties. highmount recorded ceiling test impairment charges of $291 million and $680 million ($186 million and $433 million after tax) for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012. the 2013 write-downs were primarily attributable to negative reserve revisions due to variability in well performance where highmount is testing different horizontal target zones and hydraulic fracture designs and due to reduced average ngl prices used in the ceiling test calculations. the 2012 write-downs were the result of declines in natural gas and ngl prices. a write-down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher natural gas and oil prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. depending on the magnitude of any future impairment, a ceiling test write-down could significantly reduce highmount income, or produce a loss. natural gas, oil and other commodity prices are volatile. the commodity price highmount receives for its production heavily influences its revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. if the current low price environment for natural gas continues, highmount results of operations will be lower as well. highmount is subject to risks due to frequent and possibly substantial fluctuations in commodity prices. ngl prices generally fluctuate on a basis that correlates to fluctuations in crude oil prices. in the past, the prices of natural gas and crude oil have been extremely volatile, and highmount expects this volatility to continue. the markets and prices for natural gas and oil depend upon factors beyond highmount control. these factors include, among others, economic and market conditions, domestic production and import levels, storage levels, basis differentials, weather, government regulations and taxation. lower commodity prices may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that highmount can produce economically. highmount engages in commodity price hedging activities. the extent of highmount commodity price risk is related to the effectiveness and scope of highmount hedging activities. to the extent highmount hedges its commodity price risk, highmount will forego the benefits it would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in its favor. furthermore, because highmount has entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of its natural gas and oil production, highmount will continue to have direct commodity price risk on the unhedged portion. highmount actual future 41 table of contents production may be significantly higher or lower than highmount estimates at the time it enters into derivative transactions for that period. as a result, highmount hedging activities may not be as effective as highmount intends in reducing the volatility of its cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of cash flows. in addition, even though highmount management monitors its hedging activities, these activities can result in substantial losses. such losses could occur under various circumstances, including if a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable hedging arrangement or if the hedging arrangement is imperfect or ineffective. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the assets and businesses of certain of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism, including increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of oil and gas, could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services, boardwalk pipeline transportation, gathering and storage services and highmount exploration and production activities. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which impose or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders and third party claimants rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate its business, generally at the state level. any changes in federal regulation could also impose significant burdens on cna. in addition, the lloyd marketplace sets rules under which its members, including cna hardy syndicate operate. these rules and regulations include the following: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; 42 table of contents licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; limitations on the ability of cna insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel, increase rates or change terms and conditions in policies. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and is generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. diamond offshore. the offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, is affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant capital expenditures for additional equipment to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity. in the aftermath of the 2010 macondo well blowout and the subsequent investigation into the causes of the event, new rules have been implemented for oil and gas operations in the gom and in many of the international locations in which diamond offshore operates, including new standards for well design, casing and cementing and well control procedures, as well as rules requiring operators to systematically identify risks and establish safeguards against those risks through a comprehensive safety and environmental management system ( sems ). new regulations may continue to be announced, including rules regarding drilling systems and equipment, such as blowout preventer and well control systems and lifesaving systems as well as rules regarding employee training, engaging personnel in safety management and requiring third party audits of sems programs. such new regulations could require modifications or enhancements to existing systems and equipment, or require new equipment, and could increase diamond offshore operating costs and cause downtime for its rigs if it is required to take any of them out of service between scheduled surveys or inspections, or if it is required to extend scheduled surveys or inspections, to meet any such new requirements. diamond offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking, nor is it able to predict the future impact of these events on operations. additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of diamond offshore operations, and enhanced permitting requirements, as well as escalating costs borne by its customers, could reduce exploration activity in the gom and therefore demand for its services. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore operations by limiting drilling opportunities. boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc and phmsa of the dot among other federal and state authorities. in addition to ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, federal regulations extend to pipeline safety, operating terms and conditions of service, the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer, construction or abandonment of facilities, accounting and record keeping, and relationships and transactions with affiliated companies. these regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, including by increasing the lead times to develop projects, offer new services, or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. 43 table of contents highmount. all of highmount operations are conducted onshore in the united states. the u.s. oil and gas industry, and highmount operations, are subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. such regulation includes requirements with respect to, among other things: permits to drill and to conduct other operations; provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations; the location of wells; the method of drilling and completing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; the valuation and payment of royalties; the size of drilling and spacing units (regarding the density of wells which may be drilled in a particular area); the unitization or pooling of natural gas and oil properties; maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells; venting or flaring of natural gas; and the ratability of production and the operation of gathering systems and related assets. changes in these regulations, which highmount cannot predict, could be harmful to highmount business and results of operations. hydraulic fracturing is a technique commonly used by oil and gas exploration companies, including highmount, to stimulate the production of oil and natural gas by injecting fluids and sand into underground wells at high pressures, causing fractures or fissures in the geological formation which allow oil and gas to flow more freely. in recent years, concerns have been raised that the fracturing process and disposal of drilling fluids may contaminate underground sources of drinking water. the conference committee report for the department of the interior, environment, and related agencies appropriations act for fiscal year 2010 requested the epa to conduct a study of hydraulic fracturing, particularly the relationship between hydraulic fracturing and drinking water. in december of 2012 the epa issued a progress report of the projects the epa is conducting as part of the study. a final draft report is expected to be released for public comment and peer review in 2014. several bills were introduced in the 111 th and 112 th congresses seeking federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing, which has historically been regulated at the state level, though none of the proposed legislation was passed into law. similar bills may be introduced in the current congress and a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. if hydraulic fracturing is banned or significantly restricted by federal regulation or otherwise, it could impair highmount ability to economically drill new wells, which would reduce its production, revenues and profitability. highmount owns and operates gas gathering lines and related facilities which are regulated by the dot and state agencies with respect to safety and operating conditions. phmsa has established minimum federal safety standards for certain gas gathering lines. phmsa has indicated that changes to the current regulatory framework are needed to address gas exploration and production activities. if implemented, the new changes could impact highmount ability to transport some of its natural gas or cause highmount to incur additional costs. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, many of which have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. highmount is subject to extensive environmental regulation in the conduct of its business, particularly related to the handling and disposal of drilling and production waste products, water and air pollution control procedures, and the remediation of petroleum-product contamination. boardwalk pipeline is also subject to laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release, requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. we are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. as awareness of climate change issues increases, governments around the world are beginning to address the matter. this may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our subsidiaries and their suppliers and customers. we and our subsidiaries may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and related services provided by our energy subsidiaries. governments 44 table of contents also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas. in addition, changing global weather patterns have been associated with extreme weather events and could change longer-term natural catastrophe trends, including increasing the frequency and severity of hurricanes and other natural disasters which could increase future catastrophe losses at cna and damage to property, disruption of business and higher operating costs at diamond offshore, boardwalk pipeline, highmount and loews hotels. there is currently no federal regulation that limits ghg emissions in the u.s. however, several bills were introduced in congress in recent years that would regulate u.s. ghg emissions under a cap and trade system. although these bills were not passed into law, some regulation of that type may be enacted in the u.s. in the near future. in addition, in 2009 the epa adopted regulations under the clean air act requiring the monitoring and reporting of annual ghg emissions by operators of facilities that emit more than 25,000 metric tons of ghg per year, which includes boardwalk pipeline and highmount. numerous states and several regional multi-state climate initiatives have announced or adopted plans to regulate ghg emissions, though the state programs vary widely. the establishment of a ghg reporting system and registry may be a first step toward broader regulation of ghg emissions. compliance with future laws and regulations could impose significant costs on affected companies or adversely affect the demand for and the cost to produce and transport hydrocarbon-based fuel, which would adversely affect the businesses of our energy subsidiaries. any significant interruption in the operation of critical computer systems could materially disrupt operations. we and our subsidiaries have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our businesses. any failure of our or our subsidiaries computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. computer and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including among others, storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, utility outages or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. in addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called cyber attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. any cyber attacks that affect our or our subsidiaries facilities could have a material adverse effect on our and their business or reputation. loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect personal information could result in a materially adverse effect on our operations. we and our subsidiaries rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the united states and abroad. these include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services. if one or more key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may experience a material adverse effect on our or their business or reputation. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, natural gas and oil properties at highmount, pipeline and storage assets at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. the goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit fair value as of the testing date. we calculate the fair value of our reporting units (each of our principal operating subsidiaries) based on estimates of future discounted cash flows, which reflect management judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, future industry conditions and operations and other factors. asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and 45 table of contents assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and equity. we do not expect that the separation will alter the legal exposure of either entity with respect to tobacco-related claims. we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. 98 table of contents the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2013 and 2012 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $616 million and $498 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $698 million and $543 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012. highmount has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $300 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor on a portion of its $500 million variable rate credit facility. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate at an effective rate of 3.6%. at december 31, 2013, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase interest expense by approximately $6 million on an annual basis. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2013 and 2012, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in australian dollars, canadian dollars, british pounds, brazilian reais, european monetary unit, mexican pesos and norwegian kroner. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2013 and 2012, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2013 and 2012. the impact of a change in commodity prices on the company non-trading commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 99 table of contents the following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2013 2012 2013 2012 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities long $ 645 $ 630 $ (161) $ (158) short (17) (7) 4 2 options purchased 41 19 155 23 written (23) (14) (55) (42) interest rate (2): fixed maturities long 123 161 (3) 5 short (77) (7) short term investments 3,261 2,526 other derivatives (3) (3) (3) (3) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. 100 table of contents other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2013 2012 2013 2012 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 185 $ 249 $ (46) $ (62) limited partnership investments 3,420 3,090 (447) (295) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) 41,197 42,604 (2,808) (2,818) short term investments (a) 3,539 3,309 (2) (3) other invested assets, primarily mortgage loans 515 418 (24) (18) interest rate swaps (b) (4) (6) 7 10 other derivatives (3) separate accounts: fixed maturities 149 288 (2) (4) short term investments 28 21 foreign exchange (3): forwards short 1 4 (20) (27) other invested assets 54 59 (7) (11) commodities (4): forwards short (b) 1 36 (38) (48) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(482) and $(490) at december 31, 2013 and 2012. (b) the market risk at december 31, 2013 and 2012 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 101 table of contentsrisk factors. our business faces many risks. we have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the sec or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries before investing in any of their securities. risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves which would result in a charge to cna earnings. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates derived by cna, generally utilizing a variety of reserve estimation techniques from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, many of which are highly uncertain, such as estimates of claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claims handling, case reserving policies and procedures, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of injury, illness, sickness and diseases contracted. many of these uncertainties are not precisely quantifiable and require significant judgment on cna part. as trends in underlying claims develop, particularly in long-tail and long duration coverages, cna is sometimes required to add to its reserves. this is called unfavorable net prior year development and results in a charge to earnings in the amount of the added reserves, recorded in the period the change in estimate is made. these charges could be substantial. cna is also subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna 18 table of contents reserves. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict. examples of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include: uncertainty in future medical costs in workers compensation. in particular, medical cost inflation could be greater than expected due to new treatments, drugs and devices; increased health care utilization; and/or the future costs of health care facilities. in addition, the relationship between workers compensation and government and private health care providers could change, potentially shifting costs to workers compensation; increased uncertainty related to medical professional liability, medical products liability and workers compensation coverages resulting from the patient protection and affordable care act; significant class action litigation; and mass tort claims, including bodily injury claims related to benzene, lead, noise induced hearing loss, injuries from various medical products including pharmaceuticals and various other chemical and radiation exposure claims. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, cna reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. if estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. cna key assumptions used to determine active life reserves for long term care policies could vary significantly from actual experience. cna reserves for long term care policies are based on key assumptions including morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force), discount rate and future rate increases. these assumptions, which are critical bases for its reserve estimates are inherently uncertain. if actual experience varies from these assumptions or the future outlook for these assumptions changes, cna may be required to increase its reserves. estimating future experience for long term care policies is highly uncertain because the required projection period is very long and there is limited historical data and industry data available to cna, as only a small portion of the long term care policies which have been written to date are in claims paying status. morbidity and persistency trends can be volatile and may be negatively affected by many factors including, but not limited to, overall population mortality trends, advances in medical care and voluntary lapse experience. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in cna reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting cna obligations under long term care policies, which may require changes to its reserves. this risk is more significant for long term care products because the long potential duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. in addition, cna may not receive regulatory approval for the rate increases it requests. any adverse deviation of future rate increases approved relative to cna reserving assumptions may require an increase to its reserves. if cna estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, including changes in assumptions, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, floods, riots, strikes, civil commotion and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been 19 table of contents associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance assumed and ceded and reinsurance reinstatement premiums, if any. as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, additional living expenses, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. as a result, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2015 was enacted on january 12, 2015. the reauthorization provides for a federal government backstop for insured terrorism risks for another six years with increases to the insurer co-payment and program trigger. the existence of the mitigating effects of such law is part of the analysis of cna overall risk posture for terrorism and, accordingly, its risk positioning may change if such law were modified. cna has exposure related to a&amp;ep claims, which could result in material losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer or lpt ). the cumulative amount ceded under the loss portfolio transfer at december 31, 2014 is $2.5 billion. if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, cna liabilities for a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion, or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against earnings. these charges could be substantial. cna faces intense competition in its industry and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business as well as the availability and cost of reinsurance. all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. the property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, resulting in less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. during periods in which price competition is high, cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. as a result, cna premium levels and expense ratio could be materially adversely impacted. additionally, cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. 20 table of contents cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers which could result in higher net incurred losses. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of cna contractual relationship. such action increases the likelihood that cna will not be able to recover amounts due. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if the amounts cna collects from reinsurers are less than the amount recorded for any of the foregoing reasons, its net incurred losses will be higher. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies which could result in higher net incurred losses. a portion of cna business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and are reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. as a result, cna is exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. if the amounts cna collects from policyholders are less than the amounts recorded, its incurred losses will be higher. cna may incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from changes in the financial markets. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit spread, issuer default, equity and currency, many of which are unpredictable. financial markets are highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, monetary policies, domestic and international geopolitical issues and many other factors. changes in financial markets including fluctuations in interest rates, credit, equity and currency prices, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments, the realization of investment income and the rate at which it discounts certain liabilities. cna has significant holdings in fixed maturity investments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. a decline in interest rates may reduce the returns earned on new fixed maturity investments, thereby reducing cna net investment income, while an increase in interest rates may reduce the value of its existing fixed maturity investments. the value of cna fixed maturity investments is also subject to risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of issuers of the investments cna holds. any such impairments which cna deems to be other-than-temporary would result in a charge to its earnings. in addition, cna invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed maturity investments. limited partnership investments generally provide a lower level of liquidity than fixed maturity or equity investments and therefore may also limit cna ability to withdraw assets. as a result of all of these factors, cna may not earn an adequate return on its investments, may incur losses on the disposition of its investments and may be required to write-down the value of its investments. cna valuation of investments and impairment of securities requires significant judgment which is inherently uncertain. cna exercises significant judgment in analyzing and validating fair values, which are primarily provided by third parties, for securities in its investment portfolio including those that are not regularly traded in active markets. cna also exercises significant judgment in determining whether the impairment of particular investments is temporary or other-than-temporary. the valuation of residential and commercial mortgage and other asset backed securities can be particularly sensitive to small changes in collateral performance. due to the inherent uncertainties involved with these judgments, cna may incur unrealized losses and conclude that other-than-temporary write-downs of its investments are required. 21 table of contents cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of statutory capital and surplus reported in cna statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as lloyd s, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, cna may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimates or the occurrence of an event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its working capital needs, are limited by insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary insurance regulator are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by jurisdiction. if cna is restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving intercompany dividends, cna may not be able to fund its working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future as a result of any significant financial loss or possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. the worldwide demand for diamond offshore drilling services significantly declined as a result of the decline in oil prices during the second half of 2014. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends in large part upon oil and natural gas industry offshore exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in oil and gas prices. oil prices declined precipitously during the second half of 2014, which caused a decline in the demand for offshore drilling services. any prolonged substantial reduction in oil and gas prices would adversely affect demand for the services that diamond offshore provides. a 22 table of contents prolonged substantial reduction in demand for diamond offshore drilling services as a result of a decline in oil prices could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. oil prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control, including: worldwide supply and demand for oil and gas; the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; the worldwide economic environment or economic trends, such as recessions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; civil unrest and the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities involving the middle east, russia, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves and production; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation and refining capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; weather conditions, including hurricanes, which can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area; natural disasters or incidents resulting from operating hazards inherent in offshore drilling, such as oil spills; the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; technological advances affecting energy consumption, including development and exploitation of alternative fuels or energy sources; laws and regulations relating to environmental or energy security matters, including those purporting to address global climate change; domestic and foreign tax policy; and advances in exploration and development technology. an increase in commodity demand and prices will not necessarily result in an immediate increase in offshore drilling activity since diamond offshore customers project development times, reserve replacement needs, expectations of future commodity demand, prices and supply of available competing rigs all combine to affect demand for its rigs. 23 table of contents diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which has been cyclical and is significantly affected by many factors outside of its control. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices, worldwide demand for oil and gas and a variety of political and economic factors. the level of offshore drilling activity may also be adversely affected if operators reduce or defer new investment in offshore projects, reduce or suspend their drilling budgets or reallocate their drilling budgets away from offshore drilling in favor of other priorities, such as shale or other land-based projects, which could reduce demand for diamond offshore rigs and newbuilds. as a result, diamond offshore business and the oil and gas industry in general are subject to cyclical fluctuations. as a result of the cyclical fluctuations in the market, there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and lower dayrates, followed by periods of higher demand, shorter rig supply and higher dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such fluctuations. periods of lower demand or excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in periods of lower utilization and lower dayrates. during these periods, diamond offshore rigs may not obtain contracts for future work and may be idle for long periods of time or may be able to obtain work only under contracts with lower dayrates or less favorable terms. additionally, prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts for its rigs. diamond offshore has a number of customer contracts that will expire in 2015 and 2016. diamond offshore ability to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts, will depend on various factors, including market conditions and the specific needs of its customers. given the highly competitive and historically cyclical nature of the industry, diamond offshore may be required to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts at dayrates that are below, and potentially substantially below, existing dayrates, or that have terms that are less favorable than existing contracts or it may be unable to secure contracts for these rigs. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its drilling contracts will not be terminated early or that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. generally, diamond offshore customers may terminate their term drilling contracts under certain circumstances, such as if the drilling rig is destroyed or lost, if diamond offshore suspends drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, excessive downtime for repairs, failure to meet minimum performance criteria or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods often by tendering contractually specified termination amounts, which may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of the contract. in some cases, because of depressed market conditions or commodity prices, restricted credit markets, economic downturns, changes in priorities or strategy or other factors beyond diamond offshore control, a customer may no longer want or need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower dayrate. for these reasons, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of diamond offshore existing drilling contracts, terminate their contracts without justification or repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. when a customer terminates a contract prior to the contract scheduled expiration, diamond offshore contract backlog is adversely impacted, and it might not recover any compensation for the termination or any recovery diamond offshore might obtain may not fully compensate it for the loss of the contract. in any case, the early termination of a contract may result in diamond offshore rig being idle for an extended period of time. each of these results could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. in addition, if a customer cancels a contract or if diamond offshore elects to terminate a contract due to the customer nonperformance and in either case diamond offshore is unable to secure a new contract on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if a contract is disputed or suspended for an extended period of time or if a contract is renegotiated, it could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore business. 24 table of contents generally, diamond offshore contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, diamond offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. diamond offshore can provide no assurance in such cases that it will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement. in addition, for the reasons described above, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be willing or able to fulfill their contractual commitments. diamond offshore inability to perform under its contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements, or its customers inability or unwillingness to fulfill their contractual commitments to diamond offshore, may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. diamond offshore industry is highly competitive, with oversupply and intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants. some of diamond offshore competitors may be larger companies, have larger fleets and have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in the past and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job; however, rig availability and location, a drilling contractor safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. recent new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs, as well as established rigs coming off contract during 2014, have contributed to the current decline in rig utilization, intensifying price competition. additional newbuild rigs entering the market are expected to further negatively impact rig utilization and intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur. in brazil, petrobras has announced plans to construct locally 29 new ultra-deepwater drilling rigs to be delivered beginning in 2015. these new drilling rigs, if built, would increase rig supply and could intensify price competition in brazil as well as other markets as they are placed in service, would compete with, and could displace, both diamond offshore deepwater and ultra-deepwater floaters coming off contract as well as its newbuilds coming to market and could materially adversely affect utilization rates, particularly in brazil. diamond offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. during 2014, one of diamond offshore customers in brazil, petrobras, and diamond offshore five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for 32% and 61%, of its annual total consolidated revenues. the loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on diamond offshore financial results. in addition, if a significant customer experiences liquidity constraints or other financial difficulties, it could materially adversely affect utilization rates in the affected market and also displace demand for diamond offshore other drilling rigs and newbuilds as the resulting excess supply enters the market. while it is normal for diamond offshore customer base to change over time as work programs are completed, the loss of or a significant reduction in the number of rigs contracted with any major customer may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore future business. the terms of diamond offshore drilling contracts may limit its ability to attain profitability in a declining market or to benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market. the duration of offshore drilling contracts is generally determined by customer requirements and, to a lesser extent, the respective management strategies of the offshore drilling contractors. in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, drilling contractors may prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels and ensure utilization, while customers may prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly obtain the benefit of declining dayrates. moreover, drilling contractors may accept lower dayrates in a declining market in order to obtain longer term contracts and add backlog. conversely, in periods of rising demand for offshore rigs, contractors may prefer shorter contracts that allow them to more quickly profit from increasing dayrates, while customers with reasonably definite drilling programs may prefer longer term contracts to maintain dayrate prices at a consistent level. diamond offshore may be exposed to decreasing dayrates if any of its rigs are working under short term contracts during a declining market. likewise, if any of its rigs are committed under long term contracts during an improving market, diamond offshore may be unable to enjoy the benefit of rising dayrates for the duration of those 25 table of contents contracts. exposure to falling dayrates in a declining market or the inability to fully benefit from increasing dayrates in an improving market through shorter term contracts may limit diamond offshore profitability. diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes. from time to time, diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts with national oil companies, government-controlled entities or others that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes, such as exposure to greater environmental or other liability and more onerous termination provisions giving the customer a right to terminate without cause or upon little or no notice. upon termination, these contracts may not result in a payment to diamond offshore, or if a termination payment is required, it may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time, which could adversely affect diamond offshore financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. while diamond offshore believes that the financial terms of these contracts and its operating safeguards in place may partially mitigate these risks, it can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a material negative impact on future operations or financial results. contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability on those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs generally provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs it incurs on the project. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond its control. in addition, equipment repair and maintenance expenses fluctuate depending on the type of activity the rig is performing, the age and condition of the equipment and general market factors impacting relevant parts, components and services. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in its operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may not be able to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore inability to recover these increased or unforeseen costs from its customers could materially and adversely affect its business. rig conversions, upgrades or newbuilds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore adds new capacity through conversions or upgrades to existing rigs or through new construction, such as its ultra-deepwater drillship, ocean blacklion , and the harsh environment, ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig, ocean greatwhite , both currently under construction. projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases or change orders; weather interferences or storm damage; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; disputes with shipyards or suppliers; availability of suppliers to recertify equipment for enhanced regulations; 26 table of contents customer acceptance delays; shipyard failures or unavailability; and failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of contract drilling backlog and revenue to diamond offshore. if a drilling contract is terminated under these circumstances, diamond offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract, or if it does secure a replacement contract, it may not contain equally favorable terms. diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, and oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to marine hazards, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. diamond offshore drilling contracts with its customers provide for varying levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities between its customers and diamond offshore with respect to the hazards and risks inherent in, and damages or losses arising out of, its operations, and diamond offshore may not be fully protected. diamond offshore contracts with its customers generally provide that diamond offshore and its customers each assume liability for their respective personnel and property. diamond offshore contracts also generally provide that its customers assume most of the responsibility for and indemnify diamond offshore against loss, damage or other liability resulting from, among other hazards and risks, pollution originating from the well and subsurface damage or loss, while diamond offshore typically retains responsibility for and indemnifies its customers against pollution originating from the rig. however, in certain drilling contracts diamond offshore may not be fully indemnified by its customers for damage to their property and/or the property of their other contractors. in certain contracts diamond offshore may assume liability for losses or damages (including punitive damages) resulting from pollution or contamination caused by negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by diamond offshore, its suppliers and/or subcontractors, generally subject to negotiated caps on a per occurrence basis and/or on an aggregate basis for the term of the contract. in some cases, suppliers or subcontractors who provide equipment or services to diamond offshore may seek to limit their liability resulting from pollution or contamination. diamond offshore contracts are individually negotiated, and the levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities in them can vary from contract to contract depending on market conditions, particular customer requirements and other factors existing at the time a contract is negotiated. additionally, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be limited or prohibited by applicable law or may not be enforced by courts having jurisdiction, and diamond offshore could be held liable for substantial losses or damages and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities. the indemnification provisions of diamond offshore contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and the laws or courts of certain jurisdictions may enforce such provisions while other laws or courts may find them to be unenforceable, void or limited by public policy considerations, including when the cause of the underlying loss or damage is diamond offshore gross negligence or willful misconduct, when punitive damages are attributable to diamond offshore or when fines or penalties are imposed directly against diamond offshore. the law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to diamond offshore contracts. current or future litigation in particular jurisdictions, whether or not diamond offshore is a party, may impact the interpretation and enforceability of indemnification provisions in its 27 table of contents contracts. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore contracts with its customers, suppliers and subcontractors will fully protect it against all hazards and risks inherent in its operations. there can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will be financially able to do so or will otherwise honor their contractual obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, certain risks such as pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. moreover, insurance costs across the industry have increased following the macondo incident and, in the future, certain insurance coverage may become more costly and less available or not available at all. diamond offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. however, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. because the amount of insurance coverage available to diamond offshore has been limited, and the cost for such coverage is substantial, diamond offshore self-insures for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. this results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. in addition, certain of diamond offshore shore-based facilities are located in geographic regions that are susceptible to damage or disruption from hurricanes and other weather events. future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact diamond offshore facilities, its personnel located at those facilities or its ongoing operations may negatively affect its business for those periods. these negative effects may include reduced or lost sales and revenues; costs associated with interruption in operations and with resuming operations; reduced demand for diamond offshore services from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance; employee evacuations; and an inability to retain necessary staff. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond offshore international limited ( doil ), a cayman islands subsidiary that it owns. it is diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest future earnings of doil and its foreign subsidiaries to finance foreign activities. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any future earnings generated by doil, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax. should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes. fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore international operations, diamond offshore has experienced currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. diamond offshore can provide no 28 table of contents assurance that financial hedging arrangements will effectively hedge any foreign currency fluctuation losses that may arise. significant portions of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with united states domestic operations. diamond offshore operations outside the united states accounted for approximately 85%, 89% and 94% of its total consolidated revenues for 2014, 2013 and 2012 and include operations in south america, australia and southeast asia, the middle east, europe, east and west africa, the mediterranean and mexico. because diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world, it is exposed to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, acts of terrorism, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the u.s. government may consider to be state sponsors of terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. diamond offshore may not have insurance coverage for these risks, or it may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for such events at reasonable rates. diamond offshore operations may become restricted, disrupted or prohibited in any country in which any of the foregoing risks occur. in particular, the occurrence of any of these risks or any of the following events could materially and adversely impact diamond offshore business: political and economic instability; piracy, terrorism or other assaults on property or personnel; kidnapping of personnel; seizure, expropriation, nationalization, deprivation, malicious damage or other loss of possession or use of property or equipment; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; disputes and legal proceedings in international jurisdictions; changing social, political and economic conditions; enactment of additional or stricter u.s. government or international sanctions; imposition of wage and price controls, trade barriers or import-export quotas; restrictive foreign and domestic monetary policies; the inability to repatriate income or capital; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on currency exchange; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; restriction or disruption of business activities; limitation of access to markets for periods of time; travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; difficulties in supplying, repairing or replacing equipment or transporting personnel in remote locations; 29 table of contents difficulties in obtaining visas or work permits for employees on a timely basis; and changing taxation policies and confiscatory or discriminatory taxation. diamond offshore is also subject to the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to worldwide anti-bribery laws. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling rigs; import-export quotas or other trade barriers; repatriation of foreign earnings or capital; oil and gas exploration and development; local content requirements; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. these practices may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete in those regions. it is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international offshore drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments may materially and adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete. in addition, the shipment of goods, including the movement of a drilling rig across international borders, subjects diamond offshore to extensive trade laws and regulations. diamond offshore import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations that differ in each of the countries in which diamond offshore operates and often impose record keeping and reporting obligations. the laws and regulations concerning import/export activity and record keeping and reporting requirements are complex and change frequently. these laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced and/or interpreted in a manner that could materially and adversely impact diamond offshore operations. shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which may be outside of diamond offshore control. shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled downtime for rigs. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal and civil penalties, economic sanctions, seizure of shipments and/or the contractual withholding of monies owed to diamond offshore, among other things. diamond offshore relies on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment, components and parts used in rig operations, conversions, upgrades and construction. diamond offshore reliance on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to provide equipment and services exposes it to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. certain components, parts and equipment that are used in diamond offshore operations may be available only from a small number of suppliers, manufacturers or service providers. the failure of one or more third-party suppliers, manufacturers or service providers to provide equipment, components, parts or services, whether due to capacity constraints, production or delivery disruptions, price increases, quality control issues, recalls or other decreased availability of parts and equipment, is beyond diamond offshore control and could materially disrupt its operations or result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of drilling contracts, thereby causing a loss of contract drilling backlog and/or revenue, as well as an increase in operating costs. 30 table of contents additionally, diamond offshore suppliers, manufacturers and service providers could be negatively impacted by current industry conditions or global economic conditions. if certain of diamond offshore suppliers, manufacturers or service providers were to experience significant cash flow issues, become insolvent or otherwise curtail or discontinue their business as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or equipment available to diamond offshore and/or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and equipment, which could adversely impact diamond offshore business. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline actual construction and development costs could exceed its forecast, and its cash flow from construction and development projects may not be immediate, which may limit its ability to maintain or increase cash distributions. boardwalk pipeline is engaged in multiple significant construction projects involving existing and new assets for which it has expended or will expend significant capital and it expects to engage in additional growth projects of this type. the construction of new assets involves regulatory, environmental, legal, political, materials and labor cost, operational and other risks that are difficult to predict and beyond boardwalk pipeline control. any of these projects may not be completed on time or at all, may be impacted by significant cost overruns or may be materially changed prior to completion as a result of developments or circumstances that boardwalk pipeline is not aware of when it commits to the project, including the ability of any foundation shipper to provide adequate credit support or to otherwise perform their obligations under any precedent agreements. any of these factors could result in material unexpected costs or have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its growth projects. boardwalk pipeline revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately on its expenditure of funds on a particular project. for example, if boardwalk pipeline builds a new pipeline or expands an existing facility, the design, construction and development may occur over an extended period of time and boardwalk pipeline may not receive any increase in revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service and customers begin using the new facilities. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in executing its strategy to grow and diversify its business. boardwalk pipeline relies primarily on the revenues generated from its long-haul natural gas transportation and storage services. as a result, negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on its financial condition and results of operations than if boardwalk pipeline maintained more diverse assets. boardwalk pipeline is pursuing a strategy of growing and diversifying its business through acquisition and development of assets in complementary areas of the midstream energy sector, such as liquids transportation and storage assets, among others. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. boardwalk pipeline future growth depends on its ability to grow and diversify its business by, among other things, investing in assets through acquisitions or joint ventures and organic growth projects. boardwalk pipeline ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to close and execute on accretive acquisitions and projects. any such transaction involves potential risks that may include, among other things: the diversion of management and employees attention from other business concerns; inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies; a decrease in boardwalk pipeline liquidity as a result of it using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project; a significant increase in its interest expense or financial leverage if it incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project; 31 table of contents inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals. additionally, acquisitions contain the following risks: an inability to integrate successfully the businesses boardwalk pipeline acquires; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which it is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies may exclude from coverage; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. there is no certainty that boardwalk pipeline will be able to complete these acquisitions or projects on schedule, on budget or at all. boardwalk pipeline may not continue making distributions to unitholders at the current distribution rate or at all. the amount of cash boardwalk pipeline has available to distribute to its unitholders principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations and financing activities and the amount of cash it requires, or determines to use, for other purposes, all of which fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond the control of boardwalk pipeline. some of the factors that influence the amount of cash boardwalk pipeline has available for distribution in any quarter include: fluctuations in cash generated by its operations, including as a result of the seasonality of its business, customer payment issues, general business conditions and market conditions, which impact, for example, contract renewals, pricing, basis spreads, time period price spreads, market rates, and supply and demand for natural gas and boardwalk pipeline services; the level of capital expenditures boardwalk pipeline makes or anticipates making, including for expansion, growth projects and acquisitions; the amount of cash necessary to meet current or anticipated debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in working capital needs; the ability to borrow funds and/or access capital markets on acceptable terms to fund operations or capital expenditures, including acquisitions; and restrictions contained in its debt agreements; and the cost and form of payment for pending or anticipated acquisitions and growth or expansion projects and the timing and commercial success of any such initiatives. there is no guarantee that unitholders will receive quarterly distributions from boardwalk pipeline. distributions are determined each quarter by the board of directors of boardwalk pipeline general partner based on the board consideration of boardwalk pipeline financial position, earnings, cash flow, current and future business needs and other relevant factors at that time. boardwalk pipeline may reduce or eliminate distributions at any time it determines that its cash reserves are insufficient or are otherwise required to fund current or anticipated future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, growth or expansion projects, debt repayment or other business needs. 32 table of contents boardwalk pipeline may not be able to replace expiring gas transportation contracts at attractive rates or on a long term basis and may not be able to sell short term services at attractive rates or at all due to narrower basis differentials which adversely affect the value of its transportation services. transportation rates boardwalk pipeline is able to charge customers are heavily influenced by longer term trends in, for example, the amount and geographical location of natural gas production and demand for gas by end-users such as power plants, petrochemical facilities and liquefied natural gas export facilities. as a result of changes in longer term trends such as the development of gas production from the marcellus and utica areas located in the northeastern u.s. and changes to related pipeline infrastructure, basis differentials corresponding to traditional flow patterns on boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems (generally south to north and west to east) have narrowed significantly in recent years, reducing the transportation rates and adversely impacting other contract terms boardwalk pipeline can negotiate with its customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts scheduled for renewal for its firm transportation services. these conditions have, and boardwalk pipeline expects will continue to, materially adversely affect its revenues, earnings and distributable cash flows. each year, a portion of boardwalk pipeline firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. for the reasons discussed above and elsewhere in this report, in recent periods boardwalk pipeline has renewed many expiring contracts at lower rates and for shorter terms than in the past, which has materially adversely impacted its transportation revenues. boardwalk pipeline expects this trend to continue and therefore may not be able to sell its available capacity, extend expiring contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or for the same term as the expiring contracts, which would continue to adversely affect its business. in 2008 and 2009, boardwalk pipeline placed into service a number of large new pipelines and expansions of its system, including its east texas pipeline, southeast expansion, gulf crossing pipeline and fayetteville and greenville laterals. these projects were supported by firm transportation agreements with anchor shippers, typically having a term of ten years and pricing and other terms negotiated based on then current market conditions, which included wider basis spreads and, correspondingly, higher transportation rates than those prevailing in the current market. as a result, in 2018 and 2019, boardwalk pipeline will have significantly more transportation contract expirations than other years. boardwalk pipeline cannot predict what market conditions will prevail at the time such contracts expire and what pricing and other terms may be available in the marketplace for renewal or replacement of such contracts. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to renew or replace these and other expiring contracts when they expire, or if the terms of any such renewal or replacement contracts are not as favorable as the expiring agreements, boardwalk pipeline revenues and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. these market factors and conditions could impact boardwalk pipeline on a long term basis. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to replace expiring gas storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long term basis and may not be able to sell short term services at attractive rates or at all due to narrowing of price spreads between time periods and reduced volatility which adversely affects boardwalk pipeline storage services. boardwalk pipeline owns and operates substantial natural gas storage facilities. the market for boardwalk pipeline storage and parking and lending ( pal ) services is impacted by the factors and market conditions discussed above for boardwalk pipeline transportation services, and is also impacted by natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. market conditions have caused time period price spreads to narrow considerably and price volatility of natural gas to decline significantly, reducing the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its storage and pal services and adversely impacting the value of these services. these market conditions together with regulatory changes in the financial services industry have also caused a number of gas marketers, which have traditionally been large consumers of boardwalk pipeline storage and pal services, to exit the market, further impacting the market for those services. these market factors and conditions could impact boardwalk pipeline on a long term basis. 33 table of contents boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. credit risk exists in relation to boardwalk pipeline recently announced growth projects, certain of which require the foundation shippers to provide credit support as construction progresses. further, in 2014, approximately 51% of boardwalk pipeline revenues were generated from contracts with natural gas producers, a significant number of which are integrated oil companies. several of boardwalk pipeline growth projects are supported by contracts with oil companies. in the second half of 2014, oil prices declined significantly and the outlook for oil prices indicated that prices could remain depressed for the foreseeable future. should the price of oil remain at its current level for a sustained period of time, boardwalk pipeline could be exposed to increased credit risk associated with the producer customer group. boardwalk pipeline exposure also relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by boardwalk pipeline to them under certain nns and pal services. if any of boardwalk pipeline significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by boardwalk pipeline or contracted for with boardwalk pipeline, or to post the required credit support for construction efforts, or to repay the gas they owe boardwalk pipeline, it could have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline business. in addition, boardwalk pipeline ferc gas tariffs only allow it to require limited credit support in the event that its transportation customers are unable to pay for its services. as contracts expire, the failure of any of its customers could also result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity. new or amended pipeline safety laws and regulations requiring substantial changes to existing integrity management programs or safety technologies could subject boardwalk pipeline to increased capital and operating costs and require it to use more comprehensive and stringent safety controls. boardwalk pipeline pipelines are subject to regulation by phmsa of the dot under the ngpsa with respect to natural gas and the hlpsa with respect to ngls, both as amended. the ngpsa and hlpsa govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of natural gas and ngls pipeline facilities. these amendments have resulted in the adoption of rules, through phmsa, that require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, correction of identified anomalies and other measures to ensure pipeline safety in high consequence areas, such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. these regulations have resulted in an overall increase in maintenance costs. phmsa may develop more stringent regulations applicable to integrity management programs and other aspects of boardwalk pipeline operations, which may be hastened by recent highly-publicized incidents on certain pipelines in the u.s. boardwalk pipeline could incur significant additional costs if new or more stringent pipeline safety requirements are implemented. the 2011 act was enacted and signed into law in early 2012. under the 2011 act, maximum civil penalties for certain violations have been increased to $200,000 per violation per day, and from a total cap of $1 million to $2 million. in addition, the 2011 act reauthorized the federal pipeline safety programs of phmsa through september 30, 2015, and directs the secretary of transportation to undertake a number of reviews, studies and reports, some of which may result in more stringent safety controls or inspections or additional natural gas and hazardous liquids pipeline safety rulemaking. a number of the provisions of the 2011 act have the potential to cause owners and operators of pipeline facilities to incur significant capital expenditures and/or operating costs. further, boardwalk pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers which utilize the design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, assuming that boardwalk pipeline operates those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline smys. boardwalk pipeline has authority from phmsa to operate those pipeline assets at such higher pressures, however phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on its pipeline assets and could incur significant additional costs to re-obtain such authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. 34 table of contents boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. ferc rate-making policies could limit its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc, including the types and terms of services it may offer to customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities, recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. ferc action in any of these areas could adversely affect boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. this regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to ferc regulations. ferc can also deny boardwalk pipeline the right to remove certain facilities from service. ferc also regulates the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. for boardwalk pipeline cost-based services, ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates it can charge. the basic elements that ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to earn a return or recover all of its costs, including certain costs associated with pipeline integrity activities, through existing or future rates. in october of 2014, boardwalk pipeline gulf south subsidiary filed a rate case with the ferc pursuant to section 4 of the nga (docket no rp15-65) requesting, among other things, a reconfiguration of the transportation rate zones on its system and, in general, an increase in its tariff rates. the new tariff rates are expected to become effective may 1, 2015, subject to refund, which means that gulf south will be responsible for refunds if the ferc later finds that its proposed rates are not just and reasonable. the rate case is in the initial stages and the ultimate outcome and impacts on boardwalk pipeline operating revenues and earnings for 2015 and beyond cannot be predicted at this time. ferc can challenge the existing rates on any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines. such a challenge against boardwalk pipeline could adversely affect its ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. if any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines under ferc jurisdiction were to file a rate case, such as gulf south, or if they have to defend their rates in a proceeding commenced by ferc, boardwalk pipeline would be required, among other things, to establish that the inclusion of an income tax allowance in its cost of service is just and reasonable. under current ferc policy, since it is a limited partnership and does not pay u.s. federal income taxes, this would require it to show that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to federal income taxation. to support such a showing, boardwalk pipeline general partner may elect to require owners of its units to re-certify their status as being subject to u.s. federal income taxation on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline or may attempt to provide other evidence. boardwalk pipeline can provide no assurance that the evidence it might provide to ferc will be sufficient to establish that its unitholders (or their ultimate owners) are subject to u.s. federal income tax liability on the income generated by boardwalk pipeline jurisdictional pipelines. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to make such a showing, ferc could disallow a substantial portion of the income tax allowance included in the determination of the maximum rates that may be charged by its pipelines, which could result in a reduction of such maximum rates from current levels. changes in energy prices, including natural gas, oil and ngls impact supply of and demand for those commodities, which impacts boardwalk pipeline business. the prices of natural gas and ngls fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors, including: worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions, seasonal trends and hurricane disruptions; 35 table of contents the relationship between the available supplies and the demand for natural gas and ngls; new supply sources; the availability of adequate transportation capacity; storage inventory levels; the price and availability of oil and other forms of energy; the effect of energy conservation measures; new or amended laws and regulations, new regulations adopted by governmental authorities such as the dot, phmsa and the epa, including, for example greenhouse gas legislation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of natural gas, oil and other commodities. it is difficult to predict future changes in natural gas and ngl prices. however, the economic environment that has existed over the last several years generally indicates a bias toward continued downward pressure on natural gas prices. sustained low natural gas prices could negatively impact producers, including those directly connected to boardwalk pipeline pipelines that have contracted for capacity with them. conversely, future increases in the price of natural gas could make alternative energy sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas. a reduced level of demand for natural gas could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems, reduce the demand for its services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire and affect its midstream businesses. boardwalk pipeline depends on certain key customers for a significant portion of its revenues. the loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in its revenues. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. its largest customer in terms of revenue, devon gas services, lp, represented over 10% of its 2014 revenues. boardwalk pipeline top ten customers comprised approximately 44% of its revenues in 2014. boardwalk pipeline may be unable to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts with key customers on favorable terms which could materially reduce its contracted transportation volumes and the rates it can charge for its services. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the assets and businesses of certain of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism, including increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of oil and gas, could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services and boardwalk pipeline transportation, gathering and storage services. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. 36 table of contents our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which impose or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders and third party claimants rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate its business, generally at the state level. any changes in federal regulation could also impose significant burdens on cna. in addition, the lloyd marketplace sets rules under which its members, including cna hardy syndicate operate. these rules and regulations include the following: standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; restrictions on cna ability to withdraw from unprofitable lines of insurance or unprofitable market areas; the required use of certain methods of accounting and reporting; the establishment of reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes; potential assessments for funds necessary to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers; licensing of insurers and agents; approval of policy forms; limitations on the ability of cna insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and limitations on the ability to non-renew, cancel, increase rates or change terms and conditions in policies. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and is generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. diamond offshore. certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the united states government or other governmental or international authorities. these restrictions, sanctions and embargoes prohibit or limit diamond offshore from participating in certain business activities in those countries. diamond offshore operations are also subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties and the protection of the environment. the offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, can be affected by changes in tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant expenditures for additional capital equipment or inspections and recertifications to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity. 37 table of contents in addition, diamond offshore business is negatively impacted when it performs certain regulatory inspections, which diamond offshore refers to as a 5-year survey, or special survey, that are due every five years for each of its rigs. these special surveys are generally performed in a shipyard and require scheduled downtime, which can negatively impact operating revenue. operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard, inspection costs incurred and repair and maintenance costs. repair and maintenance activities may result from the special survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. the number of rigs undergoing a 5-year survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter to quarter. diamond offshore business may also be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between 5-year surveys. intermediate surveys are generally less extensive in duration and scope than a 5-year survey. although an intermediate survey normally does not require shipyard time, the survey may require some downtime for the rig. diamond offshore can provide no assurance as to the exact timing and/or duration of downtime associated with regulatory inspections, planned rig mobilizations and other shipyard projects. in the aftermath of the 2010 macondo well blowout and the subsequent investigation into the causes of the event, new rules were implemented for oil and gas operations in the gom and in many of the international locations in which diamond offshore operates, including new standards for well design, casing and cementing and well control procedures, equipment inspections and certifications, as well as rules requiring operators to systematically identify risks and establish safeguards against those risks through a comprehensive safety and environmental management system ( sems ). new regulations may continue to be announced, including rules regarding drilling systems and equipment, such as blowout preventer and well control systems and lifesaving systems, as well as rules regarding employee training, engaging personnel in safety management and requiring third party audits of sems programs. such new regulations could require modifications or enhancements to existing systems and equipment, or require new equipment, and could increase diamond offshore operating costs and cause downtime for its rigs if it is required to take any of them out of service between scheduled surveys or inspections, or if it is required to extend scheduled surveys or inspections, to meet any such new requirements. diamond offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking, nor is it able to predict the future impact of these events on operations. additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of diamond offshore operations, and enhanced permitting requirements, as well as escalating costs borne by its customers, could reduce exploration activity in the gom and therefore demand for its services. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore operations by limiting drilling opportunities. boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc and phmsa of the dot among other federal and state authorities. in addition to ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, federal regulations extend to pipeline safety, operating terms and conditions of service, the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer, construction or abandonment of facilities, accounting and record keeping, and relationships and transactions with affiliated companies. these regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, including by increasing the lead times to develop projects, offer new services, or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, many of which have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. boardwalk pipeline is also subject to laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste, 38 table of contents requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release, requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. we and our subsidiaries are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. as awareness of climate change issues increases, governments around the world are also increasingly considering and adopting laws and regulations to address climate change issues. this may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our subsidiaries and their suppliers and customers. we and our subsidiaries may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and related services provided by our energy subsidiaries. governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas. in addition, changing global weather patterns have been associated with extreme weather events and could change longer-term natural catastrophe trends, including increasing the frequency and severity of hurricanes and other natural disasters which could increase future catastrophe losses at cna and damage to property, disruption of business and higher operating costs at diamond offshore, boardwalk pipeline and loews hotels. there is currently no federal regulation that limits greenhouse gas ( ghg ) emissions in the u.s. however, several bills were introduced in congress in recent years that would regulate u.s. ghg emissions under a cap and trade system. although these bills were not passed into law, some regulation of that type may be enacted in the u.s. in the near future. in addition, in 2009 the epa adopted regulations under the clean air act requiring the monitoring and reporting of annual ghg emissions by operators of facilities that emit more than 25,000 metric tons of ghg per year, which includes boardwalk pipeline. numerous states and several regional multi-state climate initiatives have announced or adopted plans to regulate ghg emissions, though the state programs vary widely. the establishment of a ghg reporting system and registry may be a first step toward broader regulation of ghg emissions. compliance with future laws and regulations could impose significant costs on affected companies or adversely affect the demand for and the cost to produce and transport hydrocarbon-based fuel, which would adversely affect the businesses of our energy subsidiaries. any significant interruption in the operation of our facilities, systems and business functions or breach in our data security infrastructure could result in a materially adverse effect on our operations. we and our subsidiaries have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our businesses. any failure of our or our subsidiaries computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. computer and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including among others, storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, utility outages or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. in addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called cyber attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. any cyber attacks that affect our or our subsidiaries facilities could have a material adverse effect on our and their business or reputation. a significant breach of our data security infrastructure, resulting from actions by our employees, vendors, third party administrators or by unknown third parties, that impacts our data framework or causes a failure to protect personal information of customers or employees may result in operational impairments and financial losses, as well as significant harm to our reputation. the foregoing risks relating to disruption of service, interruption of operations and data loss could expose us to monetary and reputational damages. in addition, potential exposure includes substantially increased compliance costs and computer system upgrading and security related investments. the breach of confidential information also could give rise to legal liability and regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. any such legal or regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 39 table of contents loss of key vendor relationships or issues relating to the transitioning of vendor relationships could result in a materially adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the united states and abroad. these include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services. if one or more key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products or services at the requisite level, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may experience a material adverse effect on our or their business or reputation. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, pipeline and storage assets at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. in particular, diamond offshore is currently experiencing declining demand for certain offshore drilling rigs as a result of excess rig supply in the industry due, in part, to the numerous newly constructed rigs that have or will enter the market. as a result, these rigs will negatively impact utilization which could result in diamond offshore incurring additional asset impairments, rig retirements and/or rigs being scrapped. we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. the goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit fair value as of the testing date. we calculate the fair value of our reporting units (each of our principal operating subsidiaries) based on estimates of future discounted cash flows, which reflect management judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, future industry conditions and operations and other factors. asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and equity. we do not expect that the separation will alter the 40 table of contents legal exposure of either entity with respect to tobacco-related claims. we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. 92 table of contents the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2014 and 2013 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $606 million and $616 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $671 million and $698 million at december 31, 2014 and 2013. at december 31, 2014, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase interest expense by approximately $3 million on an annual basis. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2014 and 2013, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in australian dollars, canadian dollars, british pounds, brazilian reais, european monetary unit and mexican pesos. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2014 and 2013, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2014 and 2013. the impact of a change in commodity prices on the company non-trading commodity-based financial derivative instruments at a point in time is not necessarily representative of the results that will be realized when such contracts are ultimately settled. net losses from commodity derivative instruments used for hedging purposes, to the extent realized, will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction, such as revenue from sales. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 93 table of contents the following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2014 2013 2014 2013 (in millions) equity prices (1) : equity securities long $ 482 $ 645 $ (120 ) $ (161) short (110 ) (17 ) 28 4 options purchased 24 41 (5 ) 155 written (19 ) (23 ) (30 ) (55) interest rate (2) : fixed maturities long 120 123 (5 ) (3) short (414 ) (34 ) short term investments 4,015 3,261 other invested assets 102 1 other derivatives (3 ) (2 ) (3) foreign exchange (3) : forwards and options 6 (5 ) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) a decrease in yield rates of 100 basis points and (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20%. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. 94 table of contents other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2014 2013 2014 2013 (in millions) equity prices (1) : equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 222 $ 185 $ (56 ) $ (46) limited partnership investments 3,674 3,420 (514 ) (447) interest rate (2) : fixed maturities (a) 40,765 41,197 (2,650 ) (2,808) short term investments (a) 1,999 3,511 (3 ) (2) other invested assets, primarily mortgage loans 608 515 (30 ) (24) other derivatives (3 ) 17 separate accounts: fixed maturities 149 (2) short term investments 28 foreign exchange (3) : forwards short (5 ) 1 (12 ) (20) other invested assets 41 54 (5 ) (7) commodities (4) : forwards short (b) 1 (2) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(481) and $(482) at december 31, 2014 and 2013. (b) the market risk at december 31, 2014 and 2013 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 95 table of contentsrisk factors. our business faces many risks. we have described below some of the more significant risks which we and our subsidiaries face. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be significant that may also impact our business or the business of our subsidiaries. each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the sec or make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries before investing in any of their securities. 19 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves which would result in a charge to cna earnings. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex management estimates developed utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques as of a given reporting date. the reserve estimation process involves a high degree of judgment and variability and is subject to a number of variables which are highly uncertain. these variables can be affected by both changes in internal processes and external events. key variables include claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claims handling, policies and procedures, case reserving approach, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of injury, illness, sickness and diseases contracted. there is generally a higher degree of variability in estimating required reserves for long-tail coverages, such as general liability and workers compensation, as they require a relatively longer period of time for claims to be reported and settled. the impact of changes in inflation and medical costs are more pronounced for long-tail coverages due to the longer settlement period. cna is also subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves. the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict. emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to, uncertainty in future medical costs in workers compensation. in particular, medical cost inflation could be greater than expected due to new treatments, drugs and devices; increased health care utilization; and/or the future costs of health care facilities. in addition, the relationship between workers compensation and government and private health care providers could change, potentially shifting costs to workers compensation. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the judgments necessary to establish reserve levels, cna continually reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops from the actual reporting and settlement of claims and as the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. if cna recorded reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. cna actual experience could vary from the key assumptions used to determine active life reserves for long term care policies. cna active life reserves for long term care policies are based on cna best estimate assumptions as of december 31, 2015 with no margin for adverse deviation. key assumptions include morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force), discount rate and future premium rate increases. these assumptions, which are critical bases for its reserve estimates are inherently uncertain. if actual experience varies from these assumptions or the future outlook for these assumptions changes, cna may be required to increase its reserves. see the life &amp; group non-core policyholder reserves portion of reserves estimates and uncertainties section of md&amp;a in item 7 for more information. 20 table of contents estimating future experience for long term care policies is highly uncertain because the required projection period is very long and there is limited historical data and industry data available to cna, as only a small portion of the long term care policies which have been written to date are in claims paying status. morbidity and persistency trends can be volatile and may be negatively affected by many factors including, but not limited to policyholder behavior, socioeconomic factors, changes in health trends and advances in medical care. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in cna reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting cna obligations under long term care policies, which may require changes to its reserves. this risk is more significant for cna long term care products because the long potential duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. in addition, cna may not receive regulatory approval for the level of premium rate increases it requests. any adverse deviation between the level of future premium rate increases approved and the level included in cna reserving assumptions may require an increase to its reserves. if cna estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, including changes in assumptions, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, floods, riots, strikes, civil commotion and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance assumed and ceded reinsurance reinstatement premiums and state residual market assessments, if any. as in the case of catastrophe losses generally, it can take a long time for the ultimate cost to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, additional living expenses, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. as a result of the items discussed above, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. additionally, claim frequency and severity for some lines of business can be correlated to an external factor such as economic activity, financial market volatility, increasing health care costs or changes in the legal or regulatory environment. claim frequency and severity can also be correlated to insureds use of common business practices, equipment, vendors or software. this can result in multiple insured losses emanating out of the same underlying cause. in these instances, cna may be subject to increased claim frequency and severity across multiple policies or lines of business concurrently. while cna does not define such instances as catastrophes for financial reporting purposes, they are similar to catastrophes in terms of the uncertainty and potential impact on its results. cna has exposure related to a&amp;ep claims, which could result in material losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. 21 table of contents on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion (loss portfolio transfer or lpt ). the cumulative amount ceded under the loss portfolio transfer as of december 31, 2015 is $2.6 billion. if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, net losses incurred on a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against earnings. these charges could be substantial. cna faces intense competition in its industry; cna may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business as well as the availability and cost of reinsurance. all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities for both distributors and customers. insurers compete on the basis of factors including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. the competitor insurer landscape has evolved substantially in recent years, with significant consolidation and new market entrants, resulting in increased pressures on cna ability to remain competitive, particularly in implementing pricing that is both attractive to cna customer base and risk appropriate to cna. in addition, the property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, resulting in less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. during periods in which price competition is high, cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. as a result, cna premium levels and expense ratio could be materially adversely impacted. additionally, cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers, which could result in higher net incurred losses. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of cna contractual relationship which increases the likelihood that cna will not be able to recover amounts due. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if the amounts cna collects from reinsurers are less than the amount recorded for any of the foregoing reasons, its net incurred losses will be higher. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies and/or who purchase retrospectively rated policies, which could result in higher net incurred losses. a portion of cna business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and are reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. as a result, cna is exposed to credit risk to the policyholder. if the amounts cna collects from policyholders are less than the amounts recorded, its incurred losses will be higher. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose cna to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium. 22 table of contents cna may incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from changes in the financial markets. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit spread, issuer default, equity prices and foreign currency, which are unpredictable. financial markets are highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, monetary policies, domestic and international geopolitical issues and many other factors. changes in financial markets including fluctuations in interest rates, credit, equity prices and foreign currency prices, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments, the realization of investment income and the rate at which it discounts certain liabilities. cna has significant holdings in fixed maturity investments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. a decline in interest rates may reduce the returns earned on new fixed maturity investments, thereby reducing cna net investment income, while an increase in interest rates may reduce the value of its existing fixed maturity investments. the value of cna fixed maturity investments is also subject to risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of issuers of the investments cna holds. any such impairments which cna deems to be other-than-temporary would result in a charge to earnings. in addition, cna invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed maturity investments. limited partnership investments generally provide a lower level of liquidity than fixed maturity or equity investments and therefore may also limit cna ability to withdraw assets. as a result of all of these factors, cna may not earn an adequate return on its investments, may be required to write down the value of its investments and may incur losses on the disposition of its investments. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of cna legal entity statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as lloyd s, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable jurisdiction regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, cna may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimate or the occurrence of an event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. globally, insurance regulators are working cooperatively to develop a common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups. finalization and adoption of this framework could increase cna minimum regulatory capital requirement as well as significantly increase its cost of regulatory compliance. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its working capital needs, are limited by insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary insurance regulator are generally limited to amounts determined by formula which varies by jurisdiction. if cna is restricted, by regulatory rule or otherwise, from paying or receiving intercompany dividends, cna may not be able to fund its working capital needs and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. 23 table of contents rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, namely, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future as a result of any significant financial loss or possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. the worldwide demand for diamond offshore drilling services has declined significantly as a result of the decline in oil prices, which commenced during the second half of 2014 and has continued into 2016. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends in large part upon oil and natural gas industry offshore exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in oil and gas prices. commencing in the second half of 2014, oil prices have declined precipitously and recently fell to a 12-year low of less than $30 per barrel. the dramatic reduction in commodity prices has caused a sharp decline in the demand for offshore drilling services, including services that diamond offshore provides and adversely affected its operations and cash flows in 2015. a prolonged period of low oil prices would have a material adverse effect on many of diamond offshore customers and, therefore its business. oil prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control, including: worldwide supply and demand for oil and gas; the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; the worldwide economic environment or economic trends, such as recessions; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; civil unrest and the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities involving the middle east, russia, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; 24 table of contents the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves and production; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation and refining capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; weather conditions, including hurricanes, which can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area; natural disasters or incidents resulting from operating hazards inherent in offshore drilling, such as oil spills; the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; technological advances affecting energy consumption, including development and exploitation of alternative fuels or energy sources; laws and regulations relating to environmental or energy security matters, including those purporting to address global climate change; domestic and foreign tax policy; and advances in exploration and development technology. an increase in commodity demand and prices will not necessarily result in an immediate increase in offshore drilling activity since diamond offshore customers project development times, reserve replacement needs, and expectations of future commodity demand, prices and supply of available competing rigs all combine to affect demand for its rigs. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which has been cyclical and is significantly affected by many factors outside of its control. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices, worldwide demand for oil and gas and a variety of political and economic factors. the level of offshore drilling activity is also adversely affected when operators reduce or defer new investment in offshore projects, reduce or suspend their drilling budgets or reallocate their drilling budgets away from offshore drilling in favor of other priorities, such as shale or other land-based projects, which could reduce demand for diamond offshore rigs and newbuilds. as a result, diamond offshore business and the oil and gas industry in general are subject to cyclical fluctuations. as a result of the cyclical fluctuations in the market, there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and lower dayrates, followed by periods of higher demand, shorter rig supply and higher dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such fluctuations. periods of lower demand or excess rig supply intensify the competition in the industry and often result in periods of lower utilization and lower dayrates. during these periods, diamond offshore rigs may not obtain contracts for future work and may be idle for long periods of time or may be able to obtain work only under contracts with lower dayrates or less favorable terms which could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business during these periods. additionally, prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. diamond offshore industry is highly competitive, with oversupply and intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants. some of diamond offshore competitors may be larger companies, have larger or more technologically advanced fleets and have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in the past 25 table of contents and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job; however, rig availability and location, a drilling contractor safety record and the quality and technical capability of service and equipment may also be considered. recent new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs, cancelation or termination of contracts, as well as established rigs coming off contract during 2015, have contributed to the current oversupply of drilling rigs intensifying price competition. additional newbuild rigs entering the market are expected to further negatively impact rig utilization and intensify price competition as rigs are delivered. diamond offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. during 2015, one of diamond offshore customers in brazil, petrobras, and diamond offshore five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for 24% and 65%, of its annual total consolidated revenues. the loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on diamond offshore financial results especially in a declining market where the number of diamond offshore working drilling rigs is declining along with the number of its active customers. in addition, if a significant customer experiences liquidity constraints or other financial difficulties, it could materially adversely affect utilization rates in the affected market and also displace demand for diamond offshore other drilling rigs and newbuilds as the resulting excess supply enters the market. while it is normal for diamond offshore customer base to change over time as work programs are completed, the loss of or a significant reduction in the number of rigs contracted with any major customer may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore future business. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its drilling contracts will not be terminated early or that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. currently, diamond offshore customers may terminate their drilling contracts under certain circumstances, such as if the drilling rig is destroyed or lost, if diamond offshore suspends drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, excessive downtime for repairs, failure to meet minimum performance criteria (including customer acceptance testing) or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. diamond offshore drilling contract for the ocean blacklion , for example, requires it to successfully complete certain testing procedures for the rig equipment, including the blowout preventers and well control systems. diamond offshore is currently undergoing the required testing. if these tests are not successfully completed, diamond offshore customer has the right to terminate the drilling contract or may request a renegotiation of the terms of the contract. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods often by tendering contractually specified termination amounts, which may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of the contract. during depressed market conditions, certain customers have utilized such contract clauses to seek to renegotiate or terminate a drilling contract or claim that diamond offshore has breached provisions of its drilling contracts in order to avoid their obligations to diamond offshore under circumstances where it believes it is in compliance with the contracts. additionally, because of depressed commodity prices, restricted credit markets, economic downturns, changes in priorities or strategy or other factors beyond diamond offshore control, a customer may no longer want or need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower dayrate. for these reasons, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of diamond offshore existing drilling contracts, terminate their contracts without justification or repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. such renegotiations could include requests to lower the contract dayrate, lowering of a dayrate in exchange for additional contract term, shortening the term on one contracted rig in exchange for additional term on another rig, early termination of a contract in exchange for a lump sum margin payout and many other possibilities. diamond offshore contract backlog may be adversely impacted as a result of such contract renegotiations. when a customer terminates a contract prior to the contract scheduled expiration, diamond offshore contract backlog is adversely impacted, and it might not recover any compensation for the termination or any recovery diamond offshore might obtain may not fully compensate it for the loss of the contract. in any case, the early termination of a contract may result in diamond offshore rig being idle for an extended period of time. each of these results could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. in addition, if a customer cancels 26 table of contents a contract or if diamond offshore elects to terminate a contract due to the customer nonperformance and in either case diamond offshore is unable to secure a new contract on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if a contract is disputed or suspended for an extended period of time or if a contract is renegotiated, it could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore business. generally, diamond offshore contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, diamond offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. diamond offshore can provide no assurance in such cases that it will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement. in addition, for the reasons described above, diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be willing or able to fulfill their contractual commitments. diamond offshore inability to perform under its contractual obligations or to execute definitive agreements, or its customers inability or unwillingness to fulfill their contractual commitments to diamond offshore, may have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts for its rigs. diamond offshore has a number of customer contracts that will expire in 2016 and 2017. diamond offshore ability to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts, will depend on various factors, including market conditions and the specific needs of its customers. given the highly competitive and historically cyclical nature of the industry, diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace the contracts or it may be required to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts at dayrates that are below, and potentially substantially below, existing dayrates, or that have terms that are less favorable than existing contracts or it may be unable to secure contracts for these rigs. diamond offshore contract drilling expense includes fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and dayrates. diamond offshore contract drilling expense includes all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation, maintenance and support of its drilling equipment, which is often not affected by changes in dayrates and utilization. during periods of reduced revenue and/or activity, certain of diamond offshore fixed costs will not decline and often it may incur additional operating costs, such as fuel and catering costs, for which it is generally reimbursed by the customer when a rig is under contract. during times of reduced utilization, reductions in costs may not be immediate as diamond offshore may incur additional costs associated with cold stacking of a rig (particularly if diamond offshore cold stacks a newer rig, such as a drillship, for which cold stacking costs are typically substantially higher than for a jack-up rig or an older floater rig), or it may not be able to fully reduce the cost of its support operations in a particular geographic region due to the need to support the remaining drilling rigs in that region. a decline in revenue due to lower dayrates and/or utilization may not be offset by a corresponding decrease in contract drilling expense and could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes. from time to time, diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts with national oil companies, government-controlled entities or others that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes, such as exposure to greater environmental or other liability and more onerous termination provisions giving the customer a right to terminate without cause or upon little or no notice. upon termination, these contracts may not result in a payment to diamond offshore, or if a termination payment is required, it may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. in addition, the early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time, which could adversely affect diamond offshore financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. while diamond offshore believes that the financial terms of these contracts and its operating safeguards in place may partially mitigate these risks, it can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a material negative impact on future operations or financial results. 27 table of contents contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability on those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs generally provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs it incurs on the project. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and fluctuate based on events beyond its control. in addition, equipment repair and maintenance expenses fluctuate depending on the type of activity the rig is performing, the age and condition of the equipment and general market factors impacting relevant parts, components and services. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in its operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may not be able to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore inability to recover these increased or unforeseen costs from its customers could materially and adversely affect its business. rig conversions, upgrades or newbuilds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore adds new capacity through conversions or upgrades to its existing rigs or through new construction, such as the harsh environment, ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig, ocean greatwhite , which is currently under construction. projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases or change orders; weather interferences or storm damage; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; disputes with shipyards or suppliers; availability of suppliers to recertify equipment for enhanced regulations; customer acceptance delays; shipyard failures or unavailability; and failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of contract drilling backlog and revenue to diamond offshore. if a drilling contract is terminated under these circumstances, diamond offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract, or if it does secure a replacement contract, it may not contain equally favorable terms. in addition, impairment write-offs could result if a rig carrying value becomes excessive due to spending over budget on a newbuild construction project or major rig upgrade. 28 table of contents diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel, damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, and oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to marine hazards, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. any of the foregoing events could result in significant damage or loss to diamond offshore properties and assets or the properties and assets of others, injury or death to rig personnel or others, significant loss of revenues and significant damage claims against diamond offshore, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. diamond offshore drilling contracts with its customers provide for varying levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities between its customers and diamond offshore with respect to the hazards and risks inherent in, and damages or losses arising out of, its operations, and diamond offshore may not be fully protected. diamond offshore contracts with its customers generally provide that diamond offshore and its customers each assume liability for their respective personnel and property. diamond offshore contracts also generally provide that its customers assume most of the responsibility for and indemnify diamond offshore against loss, damage or other liability resulting from, among other hazards and risks, pollution originating from the well and subsurface damage or loss, while diamond offshore typically retains responsibility for and indemnifies its customers against pollution originating from the rig. however, in certain drilling contracts diamond offshore may not be fully indemnified by its customers for damage to their property and/or the property of their other contractors. in certain contracts diamond offshore may assume liability for losses or damages (including punitive damages) resulting from pollution or contamination caused by negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by diamond offshore, its suppliers and/or subcontractors, generally subject to negotiated caps on a per occurrence basis and/or on an aggregate basis for the term of the contract. in some cases, suppliers or subcontractors who provide equipment or services to diamond offshore may seek to limit their liability resulting from pollution or contamination. diamond offshore contracts are individually negotiated, and the levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities in them can vary from contract to contract depending on market conditions, particular customer requirements and other factors existing at the time a contract is negotiated. additionally, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be limited or prohibited by applicable law or may not be enforced by courts having jurisdiction, and diamond offshore could be held liable for substantial losses or damages and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities. the indemnification provisions of diamond offshore contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and the laws or courts of certain jurisdictions may enforce such provisions while other laws or courts may find them to be unenforceable, void or limited by public policy considerations, including when the cause of the underlying loss or damage is diamond offshore gross negligence or willful misconduct, when punitive damages are attributable to diamond offshore or when fines or penalties are imposed directly against diamond offshore. the law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to diamond offshore contracts. current or future litigation in particular jurisdictions, whether or not diamond offshore is a party, may impact the interpretation and enforceability of indemnification provisions in its contracts. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore contracts with its customers, suppliers and subcontractors will fully protect it against all hazards and risks inherent in its operations. there can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will be financially able to do so or will otherwise honor their contractual obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, certain risks such as pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to 29 table of contents cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. accordingly, it is possible that diamond offshore losses from the hazards it faces could have a material adverse effect on its business. diamond offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. however, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. because the amount of insurance coverage available to diamond offshore has been limited, and the cost for such coverage is substantial, diamond offshore self-insures for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. this results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. in addition, certain of diamond offshore shore-based facilities are located in geographic regions that are susceptible to damage or disruption from hurricanes and other weather events. future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact diamond offshore facilities, its personnel located at those facilities or its ongoing operations may negatively affect its business for those periods. these negative effects may include reduced or lost sales and revenues; costs associated with interruption in operations and with resuming operations; reduced demand for diamond offshore services from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance; employee evacuations; and an inability to retain necessary staff. significant portions of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with united states domestic operations. diamond offshore operations outside the united states accounted for approximately 79%, 85% and 89% of its total consolidated revenues for 2015, 2014 and 2013 and include operations in south america, australia and southeast asia, europe, east and west africa, the mediterranean and mexico. because diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world, it is exposed to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, acts of terrorism, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the u.s. government may consider to be state sponsors of terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. diamond offshore may not have insurance coverage for these risks, or it may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for such events at reasonable rates. diamond offshore operations may become restricted, disrupted or prohibited in any country in which any of the foregoing risks occur. in particular, the occurrence of any of these risks or any of the following events could materially and adversely impact diamond offshore business: political and economic instability; piracy, terrorism or other assaults on property or personnel; kidnapping of personnel; seizure, expropriation, nationalization, deprivation, malicious damage or other loss of possession or use of property or equipment; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; disputes and legal proceedings in international jurisdictions; 30 table of contents changing social, political and economic conditions; enactment of additional or stricter u.s. government or international sanctions; imposition of wage and price controls, trade barriers or import-export quotas; restrictive foreign and domestic monetary policies; the inability to repatriate income or capital; difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on currency exchange; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; restriction or disruption of business activities; limitation of access to markets for periods of time; travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats; difficulties in supplying, repairing or replacing equipment or transporting personnel in remote locations; difficulties in obtaining visas or work permits for employees on a timely basis; and changing taxation policies and confiscatory or discriminatory taxation. diamond offshore is also subject to the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to worldwide anti-bribery laws. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling rigs; import-export quotas or other trade barriers; repatriation of foreign earnings or capital; oil and gas exploration and development; local content requirements; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. these practices may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete in those regions. it is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international offshore drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments may materially and adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete. 31 table of contents in addition, the shipment of goods, including the movement of a drilling rig across international borders, subjects diamond offshore to extensive trade laws and regulations. diamond offshore import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations that differ in each of the countries in which diamond offshore operates and often impose record keeping and reporting obligations. the laws and regulations concerning import/export activity and record keeping and reporting requirements are complex and change frequently. these laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced and/or interpreted in a manner that could materially and adversely impact diamond offshore operations. shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which may be outside of diamond offshore control. shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled downtime for rigs. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal and civil penalties, economic sanctions, seizure of shipments and/or the contractual withholding of monies owed to diamond offshore, among other things. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond foreign asset company ( dfac ), a cayman islands subsidiary that it owns. it is diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest future earnings of dfac and its foreign subsidiaries to finance foreign activities. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any future earnings generated by dfac and its foreign subsidiaries, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax. should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes, that, if material, could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business. fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore international operations, diamond offshore has experienced currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. diamond offshore relies on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment, components and parts used in rig operations, conversions, upgrades and construction. diamond offshore reliance on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to provide equipment and services exposes it to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. certain components, parts and equipment that are used in diamond offshore operations may be available only from a small number of suppliers, manufacturers or service providers. the failure of one or more third-party suppliers, manufacturers or service providers to provide equipment, components, parts or services, whether due to capacity constraints, production or delivery disruptions, price increases, quality control issues, recalls or other decreased availability of parts and equipment, is beyond diamond offshore control and could materially disrupt its operations or result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of drilling contracts, thereby causing a loss of contract drilling backlog and/or revenue, as well as an increase in operating costs. additionally, diamond offshore suppliers, manufacturers and service providers could be negatively impacted by current industry conditions or global economic conditions. if certain of diamond offshore suppliers, manufacturers or service providers were to experience significant cash flow issues, become insolvent or otherwise curtail or discontinue their business as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or equipment available to diamond offshore and/or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and equipment, which could adversely impact diamond offshore business. 32 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline actual construction and development costs could exceed its forecast, and its cash flow from construction and development projects may not be immediate, which may limit its ability to maintain or increase cash distributions. boardwalk pipeline is engaged in multiple significant construction projects involving existing and new assets for which it has expended or will expend significant capital and it expects to engage in additional growth projects of this type. the construction of new assets involves regulatory, environmental, legal, political, materials and labor cost, operational and other risks that are difficult to predict and beyond boardwalk pipeline control. any of these projects may not be completed on time or at all, may be impacted by significant cost overruns or may be materially changed prior to completion as a result of developments or circumstances that boardwalk pipeline is not aware of when it commits to the project, including the ability of any foundation shipper to provide adequate credit support or to otherwise perform their obligations under any precedent agreements. any of these factors could result in material unexpected costs or have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its growth projects. boardwalk pipeline revenues and cash flows may not increase immediately on its expenditure of funds on a particular project. for example, if boardwalk pipeline builds a new pipeline or expands an existing facility, the design, construction and development may occur over an extended period of time and boardwalk pipeline may not receive any increase in revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service and customers begin using the new facilities. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to nonperformance by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. credit risk exists in relation to boardwalk pipeline growth projects, both because foundation shippers have made long term commitments to boardwalk pipeline for capacity on such projects and certain of the foundation shippers have agreed to provide credit support as construction progresses. if a foundation shipper fails to meet the contractual credit requirements, an adjustment to the scope of the project could occur to accommodate a reduced volume commitment or boardwalk pipeline may be forced to find new customers to replace the defaulting customer, which could reduce the returns on the project. boardwalk pipeline exposure also relates to receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by it to them under certain nns and pal services. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. for 2015, no one customer comprised more than 10% of its operating revenues, and the top ten customers comprised approximately 45% of revenues. if any of boardwalk pipeline significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by boardwalk pipeline or contracted for with them, to post the required credit support for construction associated with its growth projects or to repay the gas they owe boardwalk pipeline, it could have a material adverse effect on its business. in addition, boardwalk pipeline ferc gas tariffs only allow it to require limited credit support in the event that transportation customers are unable to pay for boardwalk pipeline services. natural gas producers comprise a significant portion of boardwalk pipeline revenues and support several of its growth projects. for example, in 2015, approximately 50% of boardwalk pipeline revenues were generated from contracts with natural gas producers. during 2015, the prices of oil and natural gas declined significantly from an increase in supplies mainly from shale production areas in the u.s. should the prices of natural gas and oil remain at current levels for a sustained period of time, or decline further, boardwalk pipeline could be exposed to increased credit risk associated with its producer customer group, which would adversely impact boardwalk pipeline business. 33 table of contents boardwalk pipeline may not be able to replace expiring natural gas transportation contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to market conditions such as narrower basis differentials and sustained changes in the levels of natural gas and oil prices which adversely affect the value of its transportation services. transportation rates boardwalk pipeline is able to charge customers are heavily influenced by longer-term trends in, for example, the amount and geographical location of natural gas production and demand for gas by end-users such as power plants, petrochemical facilities and lng export facilities. as a result of changes in longer-term trends, a sustained narrowing of basis differentials corresponding to traditional flow patterns on boardwalk pipeline pipeline systems (generally south to north and west to east) has occurred, reducing the transportation rates and adversely impacting other contract terms boardwalk pipeline can negotiate with its customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts scheduled for renewal. each year, a portion of boardwalk pipeline firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. over the past several years, boardwalk pipeline has renewed many expiring contracts at lower rates and for shorter terms than in the past, or not at all. boardwalk pipeline expects this trend to continue, mainly for contracts to transport gas from west to east across its system, and therefore, it may not be able to sell its available capacity, extend expiring contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at attractive rates or for the same term as the expiring contracts. the prevailing market conditions may also lead some of boardwalk pipeline customers, particularly customers that are experiencing financial difficulties, to seek to renegotiate existing contracts to terms that are less attractive to it. these sustained conditions have had, and boardwalk pipeline expects will continue to have, a materially adverse effect on revenues, earnings and distributable cash flows. in 2008 and 2009, boardwalk pipeline placed into service a number of large new pipelines and expansions of its system, including its east texas pipeline, southeast expansion, gulf crossing pipeline, and fayetteville and greenville laterals. these projects were supported by firm transportation agreements with anchor shippers, typically having a term of ten years and pricing and other terms negotiated based on then current market conditions, which included wider basis spreads and, correspondingly, higher transportation rates than those prevailing in the current market. as a result, in 2018 and 2019, boardwalk pipeline will have significantly more transportation contract expirations than other years. boardwalk pipeline cannot predict what market conditions will prevail at the time such contracts expire, but if the contracts are renewed, it expects that these contracts will renew at lower transportation rates than when the contracts were initially executed. for example, if these contracts were renewed at current transportation market rates, revenues earned from these transportation contracts would be materially lower. if boardwalk pipeline is unable to renew or replace these and other expiring contracts when they expire, or if the terms of any such renewal or replacement contracts are not as favorable as the expiring agreements, its revenues and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. these market factors and conditions could materially impact boardwalk pipeline business. changes in energy prices, including natural gas, oil and ngls, impact supply of and demand for those commodities, which impact boardwalk pipeline business. boardwalk pipeline business is not significantly impacted by the short-term change in commodity prices, however, its customers, a significant amount of which are producers, are directly impacted by changes in commodity prices, which can impact boardwalk pipeline ability to renew contracts at existing capacities or rates or impact the producer ability to make payment for the services it provides. the prices of natural gas, oil and ngls fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors. if the recent dramatic declines in the levels of natural gas, oil and ngls prices mentioned above were to continue for a sustained period of time, the businesses of boardwalk pipeline producer customer group would be adversely affected which, in turn, would reduce the demand for boardwalk pipeline services and could result in defaults or the non-renewal of contracted capacity when existing contracts expire. conversely, future increases in the price of natural gas and ngls could make alternative energy and feedstock sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas and ngls. a reduced level of demand for natural gas and ngls could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems, reduce the demand for its services and could result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity as contracts expire and adversely impact its revenues, earnings and distributable cash flow. 34 table of contents legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls, substantial changes to existing integrity management programs, or more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject boardwalk pipeline to increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. boardwalk pipeline pipelines are subject to regulation by phmsa of the dot under the ngpsa with respect to natural gas and the hlpsa with respect to ngls. the ngpsa and hlpsa govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of natural gas and ngls pipeline facilities. these laws have resulted in the adoption of rules by phmsa, that, among other things, require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, correction of identified anomalies and other measures to ensure pipeline safety in high consequence areas (hcas), such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. in addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing phmsa regulations for certain intrastate natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines, which regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law. compliance with these rules has resulted in an overall increase in maintenance costs. new laws or regulations adopted by phmsa may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of boardwalk pipeline operations, which could cause it to incur increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. the ngpsa and hlpsa were most recently updated by the 2011 act, which was signed into law in early 2012. under the 2011 act, maximum civil penalties for certain violations have been increased to $200,000 per violation per day, with a total cap of $2.0 million. the 2011 act reauthorized the federal pipeline safety programs of phmsa through 2015, and directs the secretary of transportation to undertake a number of reviews, studies and reports, some of which may result in more stringent safety controls or inspections or additional natural gas and hazardous liquids pipeline safety rulemaking. among other things, the 2011 act directed the secretary of transportation to promulgate rules relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation, pipeline material strength testing and verification of maximum allowable pressures of certain pipelines. although a number of the mandates imposed under the 2011 act have yet to be acted upon by phmsa, the provisions of the 2011 act continue to have the potential to cause owners and operators of pipeline facilities to incur significant capital expenditures and/or operating costs. new pipeline safety legislation that will reauthorize the federal pipeline safety programs of phmsa through 2019 will be under consideration. passage of new legislation reauthorizing the phmsa pipeline safety programs is expected to require, among other things, pursuit of those legal mandates included in the 2011 act but not acted upon by phmsa. further, boardwalk pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers that utilize the design capacity of certain of pipeline assets, assuming that boardwalk pipeline operates those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline smys. boardwalk pipeline has authority from phmsa to operate those pipeline assets at such higher pressures; however, phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, boardwalk pipeline may not be able to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on its pipeline assets and could incur significant additional costs to re-obtain such authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline may not continue making distributions to unitholders at the current distribution rate, or at all. the amount of cash boardwalk pipeline has available to distribute to its unitholders principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations and financing activities and the amount of cash it requires, or determines to use, for other purposes, all of which fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond the control of boardwalk pipeline. some of the factors that influence the amount of cash boardwalk pipeline has available for distribution in any quarter include: fluctuations in cash generated by its operations, including, as a result of the seasonality of its business, customer payment issues and the timing of payments, general business conditions and market conditions, which impact, for example, contract renewals, pricing, basis spreads, time period price spreads, market rates and supply and demand for natural gas and boardwalk pipeline services; 35 table of contents the level of capital expenditures boardwalk pipeline makes or anticipate making, including for expansion, growth projects and acquisitions; the amount of cash necessary to meet current or anticipated debt service requirements and other liabilities; fluctuations in working capital needs; the ability to borrow funds and/or access capital markets on acceptable terms to fund operations or capital expenditures, including acquisitions, and restrictions contained in its debt agreements; the cost and form of payment for pending or anticipated acquisitions and growth or expansion projects and the timing and commercial success of any such initiatives; and unanticipated costs to operate boardwalk pipeline business, such as for maintenance and regulatory compliance. there is no guarantee that unitholders will receive quarterly distributions from boardwalk pipeline. boardwalk pipeline distributions are determined each quarter by the board of directors of its general partner based on the board consideration of boardwalk pipeline financial position, earnings, cash flow, current and future business needs and other relevant factors at that time. boardwalk pipeline may reduce or eliminate distributions at any time it determines that its cash reserves are insufficient or are otherwise required to fund current or anticipated future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, growth or expansion projects, debt repayment or other business needs. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in executing its strategy to grow and diversify its business. boardwalk pipeline relies primarily on the revenues generated from its long-haul natural gas transportation and storage services. as a result, negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on boardwalk pipeline financial condition and results of operations than if it maintained more diverse assets. boardwalk pipeline is pursuing a strategy of growing and diversifying its business through acquisition and development of assets in complementary areas of the midstream energy sector, such as liquids transportation and storage assets, among others. boardwalk pipeline ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to close and execute on accretive acquisitions and projects. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. any such transactions involve potential risks that may include, among other things: the diversion of management and employees attention from other business concerns; inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies; a decrease in boardwalk pipeline liquidity as a result of using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project; a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if it incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals. 36 table of contents additionally, acquisitions contain the following risks: an inability to integrate successfully the businesses boardwalk pipeline acquires; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which it is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies may exclude from coverage; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. there is no certainty that boardwalk pipeline will be able to complete these acquisitions or projects on schedule, on budget or at all. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to replace expiring gas storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to a sustained narrowing of price spreads between time periods and reduced volatility which adversely affect boardwalk pipeline storage services. boardwalk pipeline owns and operates substantial natural gas storage facilities. the market for the storage and pal services that it offers is impacted by the factors and market conditions discussed above for boardwalk pipeline transportation services, and is also impacted by natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. market conditions have caused a sustained narrowing of time period price spreads and a sustained decline in the price volatility of natural gas, which has adversely impacted the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its storage and pal services and the value associated with these services, especially when compared to previous historical levels. these market factors and conditions have adversely impacted boardwalk pipeline business. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. ferc rate-making policies could limit its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc, including the types and terms of services boardwalk pipeline may offer to its customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities, recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. ferc action in any of these areas could adversely affect boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. this regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to ferc regulations. ferc can also deny boardwalk pipeline the right to remove certain facilities from service. ferc also regulates the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. for cost-based services, ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge. the basic elements that ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to earn a return or recover all of its costs, including certain costs associated with pipeline integrity activities, through existing or future rates. ferc can challenge the existing rates on any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines. such a challenge against boardwalk pipeline could adversely affect its ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. 37 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face risks and uncertainties related to, among other things, terrorism, hurricanes and other natural disasters, competition, government regulation, dependence on key executives and employees, litigation, dependence on information technology and compliance with environmental laws. acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. future terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in this country or abroad, as well as possible retaliatory military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on the assets and businesses of certain of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from a terrorism act. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism, including increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in the price of oil and gas, could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services and boardwalk pipeline transportation, gathering and storage services. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. changes in tax laws of jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries operate could adversely impact us. changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws applicable to us or our subsidiaries could materially and adversely impact our and our subsidiaries tax liability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including the amount of cash our subsidiaries have available to distribute to their shareholders, including us. in particular, potential changes to tax laws governing tax credits or relating to the taxation of interest from municipal bonds, foreign earnings and publicly traded partnerships could have such adverse effects. our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations. the businesses operated by our subsidiaries are impacted by current and potential federal, state and local governmental regulations which impose or might impose a variety of restrictions and compliance obligations on those companies. governmental regulations can also change materially in ways that could adversely affect those companies. risks faced by our subsidiaries related to governmental regulation include the following: cna. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders and third-party claimants rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate its business, generally at the state level. any changes in federal regulation could also impose significant burdens on cna. in addition, the lloyd marketplace sets rules under which its members, including cna hardy syndicate, operate. these rules and regulations relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency (including risk-based capital measures), government-supported backstops for certain catastrophic events (including terrorism), investment restrictions, accounting and reporting methodology, establishment of reserves and potential assessments of funds to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible or restrict cna from withdrawing from unprofitable lines of business or unprofitable market areas. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. 38 table of contents diamond offshore. certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the united states government or other governmental or international authorities. these restrictions, sanctions and embargoes prohibit or limit diamond offshore from participating in certain business activities in those countries. diamond offshore operations are also subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties and the protection of the environment. the offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, can be affected by changes in tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant expenditures for additional capital equipment or inspections and recertifications to comply with governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity. in addition, diamond offshore business is negatively impacted when it performs certain regulatory inspections, which diamond offshore refers to as a 5-year survey, or special survey, that are due every five years for each of its rigs. these special surveys are generally performed in a shipyard and require scheduled downtime, which can negatively impact operating revenue. operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard, inspection costs incurred and repair and maintenance costs. repair and maintenance activities may result from the special survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. the number of rigs undergoing a 5-year survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter to quarter. diamond offshore business may also be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between 5-year surveys. intermediate surveys are generally less extensive in duration and scope than a 5-year survey. although an intermediate survey normally does not require shipyard time, the survey may require some downtime for the rig. diamond offshore can provide no assurance as to the exact timing and/or duration of downtime associated with regulatory inspections, planned rig mobilizations and other shipyard projects. in the aftermath of the 2010 macondo well blowout and the subsequent investigation into the causes of the event, new rules were implemented for oil and gas operations in the gom and in many of the international locations in which diamond offshore operates, including new standards for well design, casing and cementing and well control procedures, equipment inspections and certifications, as well as rules requiring operators to systematically identify risks and establish safeguards against those risks through a comprehensive safety and environmental management system ( sems ). new regulations may continue to be announced, including rules regarding drilling systems and equipment, such as blowout preventer and well control systems and lifesaving systems, as well as rules regarding employee training, engaging personnel in safety management and requiring third party audits of sems programs. such new regulations could require modifications or enhancements to existing systems and equipment, or require new equipment, and could increase diamond offshore operating costs and cause downtime for its rigs if it is required to take any of them out of service between scheduled surveys or inspections, or if it is required to extend scheduled surveys or inspections, to meet any such new requirements. diamond offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking, nor is it able to predict the future impact of these events on operations. additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of diamond offshore operations, and enhanced permitting requirements, as well as escalating costs borne by its customers, could reduce exploration activity in the gom and therefore demand for its services. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore operations by limiting drilling opportunities. boardwalk pipeline . boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by ferc and phmsa of the dot among other federal and state authorities. in addition to ferc rules and regulations related to the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its services, federal regulations extend to pipeline safety, operating terms and conditions of service, the types of services boardwalk pipeline may offer, construction or abandonment of facilities, accounting and record keeping, and relationships and transactions 39 table of contents with affiliated companies. these regulations can adversely impact boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, including by increasing the lead times to develop projects, offer new services, or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, many of which have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. boardwalk pipeline is also subject to laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release, requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. we and our subsidiaries are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. the u.s. congress and the environmental protection agency ( epa ) as well as some states and regional groupings of states have in recent years considered legislation or regulations to reduce emissions of greenhouse gas ( ghg ). in the absence of federal ghg-limiting legislation, the epa had adopted rules under authority of the clean air act that, among other things, establish potential for significant deterioration ( psd ) construction and title v operating permit reviews for ghg emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions, which reviews could require securing psd permits at covered facilities emitting ghgs and meeting best available control technology standards for those ghg emissions. in addition, the epa has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the u.s., including, among others, onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. in october 2015, the epa published a final reporting rule for certain onshore gathering and boosting systems consisting primarily of gathering pipelines, compressors and process equipment used to perform natural gas compression, dehydration and acid gas removal. moreover, the epa proposed in august 2015 rules that will establish emission standards for methane and volatile organic compounds released from new and modified oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing and transmissions facilities, as part of the current u.s. president administration efforts to reduce methane emissions from the oil and natural gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025. the epa is expected to finalize those rules in 2016. furthermore, the epa has passed a rule, known as the clean power plan, to limit ghgs from power plants, but on february 9, 2016, the u.s. supreme court stayed this rule while it is being challenged in the federal d.c. circuit court of appeals. if this rule survives legal challenge, then depending on the methods used to implement this rule, it could reduce demand for the oil and natural gas that boardwalk pipeline customers produce. although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address ghg emissions would impact businesses of our energy subsidiaries, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on the businesses of our energy subsidiaries. any significant interruption in the operation of our facilities, systems and business functions or breach in our data security infrastructure could result in a materially adverse effect on our operations. we and our subsidiaries have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our businesses. any failure of our or our subsidiaries computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. computer and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including among others, storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, utility outages or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. in addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called cyber attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt 40 table of contents computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. any cyber attacks that affect our or our subsidiaries facilities could have a material adverse effect on our and their business or reputation. a significant breach of our data security infrastructure, resulting from actions by our employees, vendors, third party administrators or by unknown third parties, that impacts our data framework or causes a failure to protect personal information of customers or employees may result in operational impairments and financial losses, as well as significant harm to our reputation. the foregoing risks relating to disruption of service, interruption of operations and data loss could expose us to monetary and reputational damages. in addition, potential exposure includes substantially increased compliance costs and requires computer system upgrades and security related investments. the breach of confidential information also could give rise to legal liability and regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. any such legal or regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our operations. loss of key vendor relationships or issues relating to the transitioning of vendor relationships could result in a materially adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the united states and abroad. these include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services. if one or more key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products or services at the requisite level, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may experience a material adverse effect on our or their business or reputation. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, pipeline and storage assets at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. in particular, diamond offshore is currently experiencing declining demand for certain offshore drilling rigs as a result of excess rig supply in the industry due, in part, to the numerous newly constructed rigs that have or will enter the market. as a result, these rigs will negatively impact utilization which could result in diamond offshore incurring additional asset impairments, rig retirements and/or rigs being scrapped. we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. the goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit fair value as of the testing date. we calculate the fair value of our reporting units (each of our principal operating subsidiaries) based on estimates of future discounted cash flows, which reflect management judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, future industry conditions and operations and other factors. asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us is also subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims 41 table of contents of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and our creditors and shareholders. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and equity. we do not expect that the separation will alter the legal exposure of either entity with respect to tobacco-related claims. we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims. short term investments the carrying value of the components of cna short term investments are presented in the following table: december 31 2015 2014 (in millions) short term investments: commercial paper $ 998 $ 922 u.s. treasury securities 411 466 money market funds 60 206 other 191 112 total short term investments $ 1,660 $ 1,706 accounting standards update for a discussion of accounting standards updates that have been adopted or will be adopted in the future, please read note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2015 and 2014 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $481 million and $606 million at december 31, 2015 and 2014. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $519 million and $671 million at december 31, 2015 and 2014. at december 31, 2015, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase interest expense by approximately $4 million on an annual basis. 93 table of contents equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2015 and 2014, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. our foreign transactions are primarily denominated in japanese yen, saudi arabian riyals, chinese yuan and european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2015 and 2014, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous increase of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2015 and 2014. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 94 table of contents the following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2015 2014 2015 2014 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities long $ 540 $ 482 $ (135 ) $ (120 ) short (166 ) (110 ) 42 28 options purchased 15 24 40 (5 ) written (28 ) (21 ) (36 ) 3 other derivatives (1 ) 2 (78 ) (33 ) interest rate (2): fixed maturities long 120 120 (5 ) (5 ) short (414 ) (34 ) short term investments 2,884 4,015 other invested assets 102 102 (1 ) 1 foreign exchange (3): forwards and options 9 6 (8 ) (5 ) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points and (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20%. adverse changes on options which differ from those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate change to the estimated market risk exposure. other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2015 2014 2015 2014 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 197 $ 222 $ (49 ) $ (56 ) limited partnership investments 3,313 3,674 (478 ) (514 ) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) 39,581 40,765 (2,562 ) (2,650 ) short term investments (a) 1,926 1,999 (2 ) (3 ) other invested assets, primarily mortgage loans 688 608 (31 ) (30 ) other derivatives 5 (3 ) 13 17 foreign exchange (3): forwards short (5 ) (12 ) other invested assets 44 41 (5 ) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20% and (4) an increase in commodity prices of 20%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(383) and $(481) at december 31, 2015 and 2014. 95 table of contentsrisk factors. our business and the businesses of our subsidiaries face many risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. we have described below the most significant risks facing us and our subsidiaries. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be as significant that may also impact our business or the businesses of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the sec and the information we make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries with the sec and the information they make available to the public before investing in any of their securities. 15 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves which would result in a charge to cna earnings. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex management estimates developed utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques as of a given reporting date. the reserve estimation process involves a high degree of judgment and variability and is subject to a number of factors which are highly uncertain. these variables can be affected by both changes in internal processes and external events. key variables include claims severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claims handling policies and procedures, case reserving approach, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of injury, illness, sickness and diseases contracted. there is generally a higher degree of variability in estimating required reserves for long-tail coverages, such as general liability and workers compensation, as they require a relatively longer period of time for claims to be reported and settled. the impact of changes in inflation and medical costs are also more pronounced for long-tail coverages due to the longer settlement period. cna is also subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves. the effects of unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict. emerging or potential claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to, uncertainty in future medical costs in workers compensation. in particular, medical cost inflation could be greater than expected due to new treatments, drugs and devices; increased health care utilization; and/or the future costs of health care facilities. in addition, the relationship between workers compensation and government and private health care providers could change, potentially shifting costs to workers compensation. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the judgments necessary to establish reserve levels, cna continually reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops from the actual reporting and settlement of claims and as the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. if cna recorded reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. cna actual experience could vary from the key assumptions used to determine active life reserves for long term care policies. cna active life reserves for long term care policies are based on cna best estimate assumptions as of december 31, 2015 due to an unlocking at that date. key assumptions include morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force), discount rate and future premium rate increases. these assumptions, which are critical bases for its reserve estimates are inherently uncertain. if actual experience varies from these assumptions or the future outlook for these assumptions changes, cna may be required to increase its reserves. see the non-core long term care policyholder reserves portion of the insurance reserves section of md&amp;a under item 7 for more information. estimating future experience for long term care policies is highly uncertain because the required projection period is very long and there is limited historical and industry data available to cna, as only a small portion of the long term care policies which have been written to date are in claims paying status. morbidity and persistency trends can 16 table of contents be volatile and may be negatively affected by many factors including, but not limited to, policyholder behavior, judicial decisions regarding policy terms, socioeconomic factors, cost of care inflation, changes in health trends and advances in medical care. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in cna reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting cna obligations under long term care policies, which may require changes to its reserves. this risk is more significant for cna long term care products because the long potential duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. further, changes to the corporate tax code may also impact the rate at which cna discounts its reserves. in addition, cna may not receive regulatory approval for the level of premium rate increases it requests. any adverse deviation between the level of future premium rate increases approved and the level included in cna reserving assumptions may require an increase to its reserves. if cna estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, including changes in assumptions, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, floods, riots, strikes, civil commotion and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance assumed and ceded, reinsurance reinstatement premiums and state residual market assessments, if any. it can take a long time for the ultimate cost of any catastrophe losses to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. as a result of the items discussed above, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. additionally, claim frequency and severity for some lines of business can be correlated to an external factor such as economic activity, financial market volatility, increasing health care costs or changes in the legal or regulatory environment. claim frequency and severity can also be correlated to insureds use of common business practices, equipment, vendors or software. this can result in multiple insured losses emanating out of the same underlying cause. in these instances, cna may be subject to increased claim frequency and severity across multiple policies or lines of business concurrently. while cna does not define such instances as catastrophes for financial reporting purposes, they are similar to catastrophes in terms of the uncertainty and potential impact on its results. cna has exposure related to a&amp;ep claims, which could result in material losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. 17 table of contents on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer or lpt ). the cumulative amount ceded under the loss portfolio transfer as of december 31, 2016 is $2.8 billion. if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, net losses incurred on a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against earnings. these charges could be substantial. cna uses analytical models to assist its decision making in key areas such as pricing, reserving and capital modeling and may be adversely affected if actual results differ materially from the model outputs and related analyses. cna uses various modeling techniques and data analytics (e.g., scenarios, predictive, stochastic and/or forecasting) to analyze and estimate exposures, loss trends and other risks associated with its assets and liabilities. this includes both proprietary and third party modeled outputs and related analyses to assist in decision-making related to underwriting, pricing, capital allocation, reserving, investing, reinsurance and catastrophe risk, among other things. cna incorporates therein numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of policyholder behavior, loss frequency and severity, interest rates, equity markets, inflation, capital requirements, and currency exchange rates, among others. the modeled outputs and related analyses from both proprietary and third parties are subject to the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis, including those arising from the use of historical internal and industry data and assumptions. in addition, the effectiveness of any model can be degraded by operational risks including, but not limited to, the improper use of the model, including input errors, data errors and human error. as a result, actual results may differ materially from cna modeled results. the profitability and financial condition of cna substantially depends on the extent to which its actual experience is consistent with the assumptions cna uses in its models and the ultimate model outputs. if, based upon these models or other factors, cna misprices its products or fails to appropriately estimate the risks it is exposed to, its business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected. cna faces intense competition in its industry. all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services to remain competitive. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities, some of which may be larger or have greater financial or other resources than cna does, for both distributors and customers. this includes agents and brokers who may increasingly compete with cna to the extent that they continue to have direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk. insurers compete on the basis of many factors, including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. the competitor insurer landscape has evolved substantially in recent years, with significant consolidation and new market entrants, resulting in increased pressures on cna ability to remain competitive, particularly in implementing pricing that is both attractive to cna customer base and risk appropriate to cna. the property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, resulting in less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. during periods in which price competition is high, cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. as a result, cna premium levels and expense ratio could be materially adversely impacted. cna markets its insurance products worldwide primarily through independent insurance agents and insurance brokers, who also promote and distribute the products of cna competitors. any change in cna relationships with its distribution network agents and brokers, including as a result of consolidation and their increased promotion and distribution of cna competitors products, could adversely affect cna ability to sell its products. as a result, cna business volume and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. 18 table of contents cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. cna may be adversely affected by technological changes or disruptions in the insurance marketplace. technological changes in the way insurance transactions are completed in the marketplace, and cna ability to react effectively to such change, may present significant competitive risks. for example, more insurers are utilizing big data analytics to make underwriting and other decisions that impact product design and pricing. if such utilization is more effective than how cna uses similar data and information, cna will be at a competitive disadvantage. there can be no assurance that cna will continue to compete effectively with its industry peers due to technological changes; accordingly this may have a material adverse effect on cna business and results of operations. in addition, agents and brokers, technology companies or other third parties may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. for example, they may create a digitally enabled distribution channel that may adversely impact cna competitive position. cna efforts or the efforts of agents and brokers with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize greater levels of data and technology, could adversely impact cna business relationships with independent agents and brokers who currently market its products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers, which could result in higher net incurred losses. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of cna contractual relationship, which indicates an increase in the likelihood that cna will not be able to recover amounts due. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if the amounts due from reinsurers that cna is able to collect are less than the amount recorded by cna with respect to such amounts due, its incurred losses will be higher. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies and/or who purchase retrospectively rated policies, which could result in higher net incurred losses. a portion of cna business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and is reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose cna to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium, which may be significant. as a result, cna is exposed to policyholder credit risk. if the amounts due from policyholders that cna is able to collect are less than the amounts recorded with respect to such amounts due, cna net incurred losses will be higher. cna may incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from changes in the financial markets. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit spread, issuer default, equity prices and foreign currency, which are unpredictable. financial markets are highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, monetary policies, tax policies, domestic and international geopolitical issues and many other factors. changes in financial markets including fluctuations in interest rates, credit, equity prices and foreign currency 19 table of contents prices, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments, the realization of investment income and the rate at which it discounts certain liabilities. cna has significant holdings in fixed maturity investments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. a decline in interest rates may reduce the returns earned on new fixed maturity investments, thereby reducing cna net investment income, while an increase in interest rates may reduce the value of its existing fixed maturity investments. the value of cna fixed maturity investments is also subject to risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of issuers of the investments cna holds or in the underlying collateral of the security. any such impairments which cna deems to be other-than-temporary would result in a charge to earnings. in addition, cna invests a portion of its assets in equity securities and limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed maturity investments. limited partnership investments generally provide a lower level of liquidity than fixed maturity or equity investments, which may also limit cna ability to withdraw assets. further, cna holds a portfolio of commercial mortgage loans. cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from the borrowers as a result of the creditworthiness of the borrowers or tenants of credit tenant loan properties. if the amounts cna collects from the borrowers is less than the amount recorded, it would result in a charge to earnings. as a result of all of these factors, cna may not earn an adequate return on its investments, may be required to write down the value of its investments and may incur losses on the disposition of its investments. inability to detect and prevent significant employee or third party service provider misconduct or inadvertent errors and omissions could result in a material adverse effect on cna operations. cna may incur losses which arise from employees or third party service providers engaging in intentional misconduct, fraud, errors and omissions, failure to comply with internal guidelines, including with respect to underwriting authority, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. cna controls may not be able to detect all possible circumstances of employee and third party service provider non-compliant activity and the internal structures in place to prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. any losses relating to such non-compliant activity could adversely affect cna results of operations. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of cna legal entity statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as lloyd s, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable jurisdiction regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, cna may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business in the applicable jurisdictions and specialized markets. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimated insurance reserves, the occurrence of a catastrophic event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, which severely deteriorates its capital position, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. globally, insurance regulators are working cooperatively to develop a common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups. finalization and adoption of this framework could increase cna minimum regulatory capital requirement as well as significantly increase its cost of regulatory compliance. 20 table of contents cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its corporate obligations, are limited by insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary insurance regulator are generally limited to amounts determined by formulas that vary by jurisdiction. if cna is restricted from paying or receiving intercompany dividends, by regulatory rule or otherwise, cna may not be able to fund its corporate obligations and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, including, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and s&amp;p global ratings ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future as a result of any significant financial loss or possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a significant lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse impact on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. cna is subject to extensive regulations that restrict its ability to do business and generate revenues. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders and third-party claimants rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which cna conducts its business. any changes in regulation could also impose significant burdens on cna. in addition, the lloyd marketplace sets rules under which its members, including cna hardy syndicate, operate. these rules and regulations relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency (including risk-based capital measures), government-supported backstops for certain catastrophic events (including terrorism), investment restrictions, accounting and reporting methodology, establishment of reserves and potential assessments of funds to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. state jurisdictions ensure compliance with such regulations through market conduct exams, which may result in losses to the extent non-compliance is ascertained, either as a result of failure to document transactions properly or failure to comply with internal guidelines, or otherwise. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible or restrict cna from withdrawing from unprofitable lines of business or unprofitable market areas. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. 21 table of contents the united kingdom expected exit from the european union is expected to increase the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of cna european business. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union ( e.u. ), commonly referred to as brexit. as a result of the referendum, it is currently expected that the british government will formally commence the process to leave the e.u. and begin negotiating the terms of treaties that will govern the u.k. future relationship with the e.u. in the first quarter of 2017. although the terms of any future treaties are unknown, changes in cna international operating platform may be required to allow cna to continue to write business in the e.u. after the completion of brexit. as a result of these changes, the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of cna european business is likely to increase. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. the worldwide demand for diamond offshore drilling services has declined significantly as a result of the decline in oil prices, which commenced during the second half of 2014 and has continued into 2017. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends in large part upon the oil and natural gas industry offshore exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in oil and gas prices. commencing in the second half of 2014, oil prices have declined precipitously, falling to a 12-year low of less than $30 per barrel in january of 2016. oil prices have recently rebounded to some extent, but continue to exhibit day-to-day volatility. the dramatic reduction in commodity prices has caused a sharp decline in the demand for offshore drilling services, including services that diamond offshore provides, and adversely affected diamond offshore operations and cash flows in 2015 and 2016, compared to previous years. a prolonged period of low oil prices would have a material adverse effect on many of diamond offshore customers and, therefore, on demand for its services and on its business. oil prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control, including: worldwide supply of and demand for oil and gas; the level of economic activity in energy-consuming markets; the worldwide economic environment and economic trends, including recessions and the level of international trade activity; the ability of the organization of petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) to set and maintain production levels and pricing; the level of production in non-opec countries; civil unrest and the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities involving the middle east, russia, other oil-producing regions or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the united states or elsewhere; the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves and production; available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation and refining capacity; the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; 22 table of contents weather conditions, including hurricanes, which can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area; natural disasters or incidents resulting from operating hazards inherent in offshore drilling, such as oil spills; the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; technological advances affecting energy consumption, including development and exploitation of alternative fuels or energy sources; laws and regulations relating to environmental or energy security matters, including those purporting to address global climate change; domestic and foreign tax policy; and advances in exploration and development technology. an increase in commodity demand and prices will not necessarily result in a prompt increase in offshore drilling activity since diamond offshore customers project development times, reserve replacement needs and expectations of future commodity demand, prices and supply of available competing rigs all combine to affect demand for its rigs. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which has been cyclical and is significantly affected by many factors outside of its control. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices, worldwide demand for oil and gas and a variety of political and economic factors. the level of offshore drilling activity is adversely affected when operators reduce or defer new investment in offshore projects, reduce or suspend their drilling budgets or reallocate their drilling budgets away from offshore drilling in favor of other priorities, such as shale or other land-based projects. as a result, diamond offshore business and the oil and gas industry in general are subject to cyclical fluctuations. as a result of the cyclical fluctuations in the market, there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and lower dayrates, followed by periods of higher demand, shorter rig supply and higher dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such fluctuations. periods of lower demand or excess rig supply, which have occurred in the recent past and are continuing, intensify the competition in the industry and often result in periods of lower utilization and lower dayrates. during these periods, diamond offshore rigs may not obtain contracts for future work and may be idle for long periods of time or may be able to obtain work only under contracts with lower dayrates or less favorable terms which could have a material adverse effect on diamond offshore business during these periods. additionally, prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of further impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. diamond offshore industry is highly competitive, with oversupply and intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants. some of diamond offshore competitors may be larger companies, have larger or more technologically advanced fleets and have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in the past and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. 23 table of contents new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs, cancelation or termination of drilling contracts and established rigs coming off contract have contributed to the current oversupply of drilling rigs, intensifying price competition. additional newbuild rigs entering the market are expected to further negatively impact rig utilization and intensify price competition as rigs are delivered. diamond offshore customer base is concentrated. diamond offshore provides offshore drilling services to a customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and government-owned oil companies. during 2016, one of diamond offshore customers in the gom, anadarko, and diamond offshore five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for 22% and 65% of its annual total consolidated revenues. in addition, the number of customers diamond offshore has performed services for has declined from 35 in 2014 to 18 in 2016. the loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on diamond offshore financial results, especially in a declining market where the number of diamond offshore working drilling rigs is declining along with the number of its active customers. in addition, if a significant customer experiences liquidity constraints or other financial difficulties, or elects to terminate one of diamond offshore drilling contracts, it could materially adversely affect utilization rates in the affected market and also displace demand for diamond offshore other drilling rigs as the resulting excess supply enters the market. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its drilling contracts will not be terminated early or that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. currently, diamond offshore customers may terminate their drilling contracts under certain circumstances, such as the destruction or loss of a drilling rig or if diamond offshore suspends drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, excessive downtime for repairs, failure to meet minimum performance criteria (including customer acceptance testing) or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods, often by tendering contractually specified termination amounts, which may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of the contract. during depressed market conditions, such as those currently in effect, certain customers have utilized such contract clauses to seek to renegotiate or terminate a drilling contract or claim that diamond offshore has breached provisions of its drilling contracts in order to avoid their obligations to diamond offshore under circumstances where diamond offshore believes it is in compliance with the contracts. for example, in august of 2016, petrobras, the customer for the ocean valor , delivered a notice of termination of its drilling contract. diamond offshore is disputing in court the termination attempt as unlawful and has obtained a preliminary injunction against the termination, which petrobras has appealed. additionally, because of depressed commodity prices, restricted credit markets, economic downturns, changes in priorities or strategy or other factors beyond diamond offshore control, a customer may no longer want or need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower dayrate. for these reasons, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of diamond offshore existing drilling contracts, terminate their contracts without justification or repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. such renegotiations could include requests to lower the contract dayrate in some cases, in exchange for additional contract term, shorten the term on one contracted rig in exchange for additional term on another rig, early termination of a contract in exchange for a lump sum payout and many other possibilities. diamond offshore contract backlog may be adversely impacted as a result of such contract terminations or renegotiations. when a customer terminates a contract prior to the contract scheduled expiration, diamond offshore contract backlog is adversely impacted and diamond offshore might not recover any compensation for the termination, or any recovery diamond offshore might obtain may not fully compensate it for the loss of the contract. in any case, the early termination of a contract may result in diamond offshore rig being idle for an extended period of time. currently, diamond offshore reported contract backlog only includes future revenues under firm commitments; however, from time to time, diamond offshore may report anticipated commitments for which definitive agreements have not yet been, but are expected to be, executed. diamond offshore can provide no assurance in such cases that it will be able to ultimately execute a definitive agreement. in addition, for the reasons described above, 24 table of contents diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its customers will be willing or able to fulfill their contractual commitments. diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts for its rigs. as of the date of this report, diamond offshore has a number of customer contracts that will expire in 2017 and 2018. diamond offshore ability to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts, will depend on various factors, including market conditions and the specific needs of its customers at such times. given the historically cyclical and highly competitive nature of the industry, diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace the contracts or it may be required to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts at dayrates that are below, and potentially substantially below, existing dayrates, or that have terms that are less favorable than existing contracts. moreover, diamond offshore may be unable to secure contracts for these rigs. failure to secure contracts for a rig may result in a decision to cold stack the rig, which puts the rig at risk for impairment and may competitively disadvantage the rig as customers during the most recent market downturn have expressed a preference for ready or hot stacked rigs over cold-stacked rigs. diamond offshore contract drilling expense includes fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and dayrates. diamond offshore contract drilling expense includes all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation, maintenance and support of its drilling equipment, which is often not affected by changes in dayrates and utilization. during periods of reduced revenue and/or activity, certain of diamond offshore fixed costs will not decline and often it may incur additional operating costs, such as fuel and catering costs, for which it is generally reimbursed by the customer when a rig is under contract. during times of reduced utilization, reductions in costs may not be immediate as diamond offshore may incur additional costs associated with cold stacking of a rig (particularly if diamond offshore cold stacks a newer rig, such as a drillship, for which cold stacking costs are typically substantially higher than for a jack-up rig or an older floater rig), or it may not be able to fully reduce the cost of its support operations in a particular geographic region due to the need to support the remaining drilling rigs in that region. accordingly, a decline in revenue due to lower dayrates and/or utilization may not be offset by a corresponding decrease in contract drilling expense. diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes. from time to time, diamond offshore may enter into drilling contracts with national oil companies, government-controlled entities or others that expose it to greater risks than it normally assumes, such as exposure to greater environmental or other liability and more onerous termination provisions giving the customer a right to terminate without cause or upon little or no notice. upon termination, these contracts may not result in a payment to diamond offshore, or if a termination payment is required, it may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of a contract. diamond offshore is subject to extensive domestic and international laws and regulations that could significantly limit its business activities and revenues and increase its costs. certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the united states government or other governmental or international authorities. these restrictions, sanctions and embargoes may prohibit or limit diamond offshore from participating in certain business activities in those countries. diamond offshore operations are also subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties and the protection of the environment. the offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, can be affected by changes in tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. diamond offshore may be required to make significant expenditures for additional capital equipment or inspections and recertifications to comply with existing or new governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity. 25 table of contents in addition, diamond offshore business is negatively impacted when it performs certain regulatory inspections, which diamond offshore refers to as a special survey, that are due every five years for most of its rigs. the inspection interval for diamond offshore north sea rigs is two and one half years. these special surveys are generally performed in a shipyard and require scheduled downtime, which can negatively impact operating revenue. operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard, and inspection, repair and maintenance costs. repair and maintenance activities may result from the special survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. the number of rigs undergoing a special survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter to quarter. diamond offshore business may also be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between special surveys. although an intermediate survey normally does not require shipyard time, the survey may require some downtime for the rig. diamond offshore can provide no assurance as to the exact timing and/or duration of downtime associated with regulatory inspections, planned rig mobilizations and other shipyard projects. in april of 2016, the bureau of safety and environmental enforcement ( bsee ) issued its final well control regulations in response to the 2010 macondo well blowout and subsequent investigation into the causes of the event. the final well control rule, which became effective in july of 2016, resulted in reforms that consolidated new regulations regarding equipment and operational requirements pertaining to offshore oil and gas drilling, completions, workovers and decommissioning operations in the gom to enhance safety and environmental protection. bsee final rule focuses on blowout preventers ( bops ) and well-control requirements. key features of the well control rule include requirements for bops, double shear rams, third-party reviews of equipment, real-time monitoring data, safe drilling margins, centralizers, inspections and other reforms related to well design and control, casing, cementing and subsea containment. bsee new regulations under the well control rule, to be phased in over time, could require modifications or enhancements to existing systems and equipment, or require new equipment, and could increase diamond offshore operating costs and cause downtime for its rigs if it is required to take any of them out of service between scheduled surveys or inspections, or if it is required to extend scheduled surveys or inspections, to meet any such new requirements. diamond offshore is not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of any additional rulemaking or the future impact of these events on its operations. additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of diamond offshore operations, and enhanced permitting requirements, as well as escalating costs borne by its customers, could reduce exploration activity in the gom and therefore demand for its services. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could materially and adversely affect diamond offshore operations by limiting drilling opportunities. if diamond offshore or its customers are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for drilling operations, diamond offshore may be forced to delay, suspend or cease its operations. oil and natural gas exploration and production operations require numerous permits and approvals for diamond offshore and its customers from governmental agencies in the areas in which it operates or expects to operate. obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures to comply with the requirements of these permits and approvals, future changes to these permits or approvals, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing permits and approvals. in addition, such regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail diamond offshore operations. contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability of those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs generally provide for the payment of a fixed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs it incurs on the project. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and may fluctuate based on events beyond its control. in addition, equipment repair and maintenance expenses vary 26 table of contents depending on the type of activity the rig is performing, the age and condition of the equipment and general market factors impacting relevant parts, components and services. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in its operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may not be able to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel and damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to marine hazards, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. any of the foregoing events could result in significant damage or loss to diamond offshore properties and assets or the properties and assets of others, injury or death to rig personnel or others, significant loss of revenues and significant damage claims against diamond offshore. diamond offshore drilling contracts with its customers provide for varying levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities between its customers and diamond offshore with respect to the hazards and risks inherent in, and damages or losses arising out of, its operations, and diamond offshore may not be fully protected. diamond offshore contracts with its customers generally provide that diamond offshore and its customers each assume liability for their respective personnel and property. diamond offshore contracts also generally provide that its customers assume most of the responsibility for and indemnify diamond offshore against loss, damage or other liability resulting from, among other hazards and risks, pollution originating from the well and subsurface damage or loss, while diamond offshore typically retains responsibility for and indemnifies its customers against pollution originating from the rig. however, in certain drilling contracts diamond offshore may not be fully indemnified by its customers for damage to their property and/or the property of their other contractors. in certain contracts diamond offshore may assume liability for losses or damages (including punitive damages) resulting from pollution or contamination caused by negligent or willful acts of commission or omission by diamond offshore, its suppliers and/or subcontractors, generally (but not always) subject to negotiated caps on a per occurrence basis and/or on an aggregate basis for the term of the contract. in some cases, suppliers or subcontractors who provide equipment or services to diamond offshore may seek to limit their liability resulting from pollution or contamination. diamond offshore contracts are individually negotiated, and the levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities in them can vary from contract to contract depending on market conditions, particular customer requirements and other factors existing at the time a contract is negotiated. additionally, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be limited or prohibited by applicable law or such provisions may not be enforced by courts having jurisdiction, and diamond offshore could be held liable for substantial losses or damages and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities. the indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and the laws or courts of certain jurisdictions may enforce such provisions while other laws or courts may find them to be unenforceable, void or limited by public policy considerations, including when the cause of the underlying loss or damage is diamond offshore gross negligence or willful misconduct, when punitive damages are attributable to diamond offshore or when fines or penalties are imposed directly against diamond offshore. the law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to diamond offshore contracts. current or future litigation in particular jurisdictions, whether or not diamond offshore is a party, may impact the interpretation and enforceability of indemnification provisions in its contracts. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore contracts with its customers, suppliers and subcontractors will fully protect it against all hazards and risks inherent in its operations. 27 table of contents there can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will be financially able to do so or will otherwise honor their contractual obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, certain risks such as pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. diamond offshore believes that the policy limit under its marine liability insurance is within the range that is customary for companies of its size in the offshore drilling industry and is appropriate for its business. however, if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could result in significant loss to diamond offshore. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that diamond offshore will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. significant portions of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with united states domestic operations. diamond offshore operations outside the united states accounted for approximately 66%, 79% and 85% of its total consolidated revenues for 2016, 2015 and 2014 and include, or have included, operations in south america, australia and southeast asia, europe, east and west africa, the mediterranean and mexico. because diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world, it is exposed to a variety of risks inherent in international operations, including risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, acts of terrorism, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the u.s. government may consider to be state sponsors of terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. diamond offshore may not have insurance coverage for these risks, or it may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for such events at reasonable rates. diamond offshore operations may become restricted, disrupted or prohibited in any country in which any of these risks occur. in particular, diamond offshore is also subject to the following risks in connection with its international operations: political and economic instability; piracy, terrorism or other assaults on property or personnel; kidnapping of personnel; seizure, expropriation, nationalization, deprivation, malicious damage or other loss of possession or use of property or equipment; renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; disputes and legal proceedings in international jurisdictions; changing social, political and economic conditions; enactment of additional or stricter u.s. government or international sanctions; imposition of wage and price controls, trade barriers, export controls or import-export quotas; restrictive foreign and domestic monetary policies; the inability to repatriate income or capital; 28 table of contents difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and restrictions on currency exchange; regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; restriction or disruption of business activities; limitation of access to markets for periods of time; travel limitations or operational problems caused by public health threats or changes in immigration policies; difficulties in supplying, repairing or replacing equipment or transporting personnel in remote locations; difficulties in obtaining visas or work permits for employees on a timely basis; and changing taxation policies and confiscatory or discriminatory taxation. diamond offshore is also subject to the regulations of the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to domestic and international anti-bribery laws and sanctions and other restrictions imposed by other governmental or international authorities. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to: the equipping and operation of drilling rigs; import-export quotas or other trade barriers; repatriation of foreign earnings or capital; oil and gas exploration and development; local content requirements; taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel; and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. some foreign governments favor or effectively require the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors, require use of a local agent or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. these practices may adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete in those regions. it is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international offshore drilling industry. the actions of foreign governments may materially and adversely affect diamond offshore ability to compete against local competitors. in addition, the shipment of goods, including the movement of a drilling rig across international borders, subjects diamond offshore to extensive trade laws and regulations. diamond offshore import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations that differ in each of the countries in which diamond offshore operates and often impose record-keeping and reporting obligations. the laws and regulations concerning import/export activity and record-keeping and reporting requirements are complex and change frequently. these laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced and/or interpreted in a manner adverse to diamond offshore. shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which may be outside of diamond offshore control. shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled downtime for rigs. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal and civil penalties, economic sanctions, seizure of shipments and/or the contractual withholding of monies owed to diamond offshore, among other things. 29 table of contents diamond offshore has elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. because the amount of insurance coverage available to diamond offshore has been limited, and the cost for such coverage is substantial, diamond offshore self-insures for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the gom. this results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. in addition, certain of diamond offshore shore-based facilities are located in geographic regions that are susceptible to damage or disruption from hurricanes and other weather events. future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact diamond offshore facilities, its personnel located at those facilities or its ongoing operations may negatively affect its business. these negative effects may include or result from reduced or lost sales and revenues; costs associated with interruption in operations and with resuming operations; reduced demand for diamond offshore services from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; uninsured property losses; lack of or inadequate business interruption insurance; employee evacuations; and an inability to retain necessary staff. diamond offshore consolidated effective income tax rate may vary substantially from one reporting period to another. diamond offshore consolidated effective income tax rate is impacted by the mix between its domestic and international pre-tax earnings or losses, as well as the mix of the international tax jurisdictions in which it operates. diamond offshore cannot provide any assurances as to what its consolidated effective income tax rate will be in the future due to, among other factors, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of its business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as potential changes in u.s. and foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, changes in the administrative practices and precedents of tax authorities or any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts diamond offshore has provided for income taxes or deferred tax assets and liabilities in its consolidated financial statements. this variability may cause its consolidated effective income tax rate to vary substantially from one reporting period to another. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond foreign asset company ( dfac ), a cayman islands subsidiary that it owns. it is diamond offshore intention to indefinitely reinvest future earnings of dfac and its foreign subsidiaries to finance foreign activities. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any future earnings generated by dfac and its foreign subsidiaries, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax. should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes. fluctuations in exchange rates and nonconvertibility of currencies could result in losses. due to diamond offshore international operations, certain of its monetary assets and liabilities, including tax related liabilities, are denominated in a foreign currency. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could increase or decrease the amount receivable or payable by diamond offshore. diamond offshore has experienced currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where it does not effectively hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. diamond offshore may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. 30 table of contents diamond offshore must make substantial capital and operating expenditures to build, maintain, and upgrade its drilling fleet. diamond offshore business is highly capital intensive and dependent on having sufficient cash flow and/or available sources of financing in order to fund its desired capital expenditure requirements. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that it will have access to adequate or economical sources of capital to fund its capital expenditures. diamond offshore debt levels may limit its liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. as of december 31, 2016, diamond offshore had outstanding approximately $104 million in borrowings under its revolving credit facility and $2 billion of senior notes, maturing at various times from 2019 through 2043. as of february 10, 2017, diamond offshore had no outstanding borrowings and $1.5 billion available under its revolving credit facility to meet its short term liquidity requirements. diamond offshore may incur additional indebtedness in the future and borrow from time to time under its revolving credit facility to fund working capital or other needs, subject to compliance with its covenants. diamond offshore ability to meet its debt service obligations is dependent upon its future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its control. high levels of indebtedness could have negative consequences to diamond offshore, including: it may have difficulty satisfying its obligations with respect to its outstanding debt; it may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; it may need to use a substantial portion of available cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on its debt, which would reduce the amount of money available to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, the payment of dividends and other general corporate or business activities; vulnerability to the effects of general economic downturns, adverse industry conditions and adverse operating results could increase; flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and in its industry in general could be limited; it may not have the ability to pursue business opportunities that become available; the amount of debt and the amount it must pay to service its debt obligations could place diamond offshore at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; customers may react adversely to its significant debt level and seek alternative service providers; and failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in its debt instruments that, among other things, require diamond offshore to maintain a specified ratio of its consolidated indebtedness to total capitalization and limit the ability of its subsidiaries to incur debt, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on its business. in addition, approximately $500 million of diamond offshore long-term senior notes will mature over the next five years and will need to be paid or refinanced. diamond offshore may not be able to refinance its maturing debt upon commercially reasonable terms, or at all, depending on numerous factors, including its financial condition and prospects at the time and the then current state of the bank and capital markets in the u.s. further, diamond 31 table of contents offshore liquidity may be adversely affected if it is unable to replace the revolving credit facility upon acceptable terms when it matures. in november of 2016, s&amp;p downgraded diamond offshore corporate credit rating to bb+ from bbb, and, in january of 2017, further downgraded its corporate credit rating to bb-; the outlook remains negative. diamond offshore current corporate credit rating by moody is ba2, with a stable outlook. these credit ratings are below investment grade and could raise the cost of financing. as a consequence, diamond offshore may not be able to issue additional debt in amounts and/or with terms that it considers to be reasonable. diamond offshore revolving credit facility bears interest at variable rates, based on its corporate credit rating and market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, diamond offshore cost to borrow under its revolving credit facility may also increase. favorable changes in diamond offshore current credit ratings could lower the fees that it pays under its revolving credit facility, however, any further downgrade in diamond offshore credit ratings would have no further impact on the applicable interest rate margins and fees under the revolving credit facility. although diamond offshore may employ hedging strategies such that a portion of the aggregate principal amount outstanding under this credit facility would effectively carry a fixed rate of interest, any hedging arrangement put in place may not offer complete protection from this risk. unionization efforts and labor regulations in some of the countries in which diamond offshore operates could materially increase its costs or limit its flexibility. some of diamond offshore employees in non-u.s. markets are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements which are subject to periodic renegotiation. these negotiations could result in higher personnel expenses, other increased costs or increased operational restrictions. efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of diamond offshore workforce. in addition, diamond offshore may be subjected to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in certain countries. additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase diamond offshore costs, reduce its revenues or limit its flexibility. rig conversions, upgrades or newbuilds may be subject to delays and cost overruns. from time to time, diamond offshore adds new capacity through conversions or upgrades to its existing rigs or through new construction. projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases or change orders; weather interferences or storm damage; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; design and engineering problems; disputes with shipyards or suppliers; availability of suppliers to recertify equipment for enhanced regulations; customer acceptance delays; shipyard failures or unavailability; and failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. 32 table of contents failure to complete a rig upgrade or new construction on time, or failure to complete a rig conversion or new construction in accordance with its design specifications may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract, resulting in a loss of contract drilling backlog and revenue to diamond offshore. if a drilling contract is terminated under these circumstances, diamond offshore may not be able to secure a replacement contract, or if it does secure a replacement contract, it may not contain equally favorable terms. in addition, impairment write-offs could result if a rig carrying value becomes excessive due to spending over budget on a newbuild construction project or major rig upgrade. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline may not be able to replace expiring natural gas transportation contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to market conditions. each year, a portion of boardwalk pipeline firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be renewed or replaced. over the past several years, boardwalk pipeline has renewed some expiring contracts at lower rates and for shorter terms than in the past, and in some cases, it remarketed the capacity to other customers. boardwalk pipeline expects this trend to continue, including for the contracts entered into in 2008 and 2009 related to its east texas pipeline, southeast expansion, gulf crossing pipeline, and fayetteville and greenville lateral growth projects. these projects are supported by firm transportation agreements, typically having a term of ten years and priced based on then current market conditions. as the terms of these contracts expire in 2018 and 2019, boardwalk pipeline will have significantly more transportation contract expirations than it has had during the past several years. boardwalk pipeline cannot predict what market conditions will prevail when these contracts expire. if these contracts are renewed, boardwalk pipeline expects that the new contracts will be at lower rates and for shorter contract terms than its current contracts. if these contracts are renewed at current market rates, the revenues earned from these transportation contracts would be materially lower than they are today. the narrowing of the price differentials between natural gas supplies and market demand for natural gas has reduced the transportation rates that boardwalk pipeline can charge. the transportation rates boardwalk pipeline is able to charge customers are heavily influenced by market trends (both short and longer term), including the available supply, geographical location of natural gas production, the competition between producing basins, the demand for gas by end-users such as power plants, petrochemical facilities and lng export facilities and the price differentials between the gas supplies and the market demand for the gas (basis differentials). current market conditions have resulted in a sustained narrowing of basis differentials on certain portions of boardwalk pipeline pipeline system, which has reduced transportation rates that can be charged in the affected areas and adversely affected the contract terms boardwalk pipeline can secure from its customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts being renewed or replaced in these areas. the prevailing market conditions may also lead some of its customers to seek to renegotiate existing contracts to terms that are less attractive to boardwalk pipeline; for example, seeking a current price reduction in exchange for an extension of the contract term. boardwalk pipeline expects these market conditions to continue. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to default or bankruptcy by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the default by a customer of its contractual obligations or the customer filing bankruptcy. boardwalk pipeline has credit risk with both its existing customers and those supporting its growth projects. natural gas producers comprise a significant portion of boardwalk pipeline revenues and support several of its growth projects. in 2016, approximately 46% of boardwalk pipeline revenues were generated from contracts with natural gas producers. for existing customers on its interstate pipelines, ferc gas tariffs only allow boardwalk pipeline to require limited credit support. during 2016, the prices of oil and natural gas remained volatile. if gas prices continue to remain volatile for a sustained period of time, boardwalk pipeline producer customers will be adversely affected, which could lead some customers to default on their obligations to boardwalk pipeline or file for bankruptcy. 33 table of contents credit risk also exists in relation to boardwalk pipeline growth projects, both because foundation customers make long term firm capacity commitments to boardwalk pipeline for such projects and certain of those foundation customers agree to provide credit support as construction for such projects progresses. if a customer fails to post the required credit support during the growth project process, overall returns on the project may be reduced to the extent an adjustment to the scope of the project results or boardwalk pipeline is unable to replace the defaulting customer. boardwalk pipeline credit exposure also includes receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by boardwalk pipeline to them under certain nns and parking and lending ( pal ) services. in 2016, the credit ratings of several of boardwalk pipeline producer customers, including some of those supporting its growth projects, were downgraded. the downgrades may restrict liquidity for those customers and indicate a greater likelihood of nonperformance of their contractual obligations, including failure to make future payments, or the failure to post required letters of credit or other forms of credit support. in addition, boardwalk pipeline customers that file for bankruptcy protection may also seek to have their contracts with boardwalk pipeline rejected in the bankruptcy proceedings. during 2016, several of its customers declared bankruptcy. while the overall impact of these bankruptcies was not material to its business in 2016, one of the bankruptcies did negatively affect one of its growth projects. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of its revenues. for 2016, while no customer comprised 10% or more of its operating revenues, the top ten customers comprised approximately 42% of revenues. if any of boardwalk pipeline significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in bankruptcy, a delay or failure to pay for services provided by boardwalk pipeline to post the required credit support for construction associated with its growth projects or existing contracts or to repay the gas they owe boardwalk pipeline, it could have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipeline actual construction and development costs could exceed its forecasts, its anticipated cash flow from construction and development projects will not be immediate and its construction and development projects may not be completed on time or at all. boardwalk pipeline is engaged in multiple significant construction projects involving its existing assets and the construction of new facilities for which it has expended or will expend significant capital. boardwalk pipeline expects to continue to engage in the construction of additional growth projects and modifications of its system. when boardwalk pipeline builds a new pipeline or expands or modifies an existing facility, the design, construction and development occurs over an extended period of time, and it will not receive any revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service. typically, there are several years between when the project is announced and when customers begin using the new facilities. during this period, boardwalk pipeline spends capital and incurs costs without receiving any of the financial benefits associated with the projects. the construction of new assets involves regulatory, environmental, activist, legal, political, materials and labor costs, as well as operational and other risks that are difficult to predict and beyond boardwalk pipeline control. any of these projects may not be completed on time or at all due to a variety of factors, may be impacted by significant cost overruns or may be materially changed prior to completion as a result of developments or circumstances that boardwalk pipeline is not aware of when it commits to the project, including the inability of any shipper to provide adequate credit support or to otherwise perform their obligations under any precedent agreements. any of these events could result in material unexpected costs or have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its growth projects. 34 table of contents legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more prescriptive compliance activities, substantial changes to existing integrity management programs or withdrawal of regulatory waivers could subject boardwalk pipeline to increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. boardwalk pipeline interstate pipelines are subject to regulation by phmsa, which is part of dot. phmsa regulates the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of existing interstate natural gas and ngls pipeline facilities. phmsa regulation currently requires pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including frequent inspections, correction of certain identified anomalies and other measures to promote pipeline safety in hcas, such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. states have jurisdiction over certain of boardwalk pipeline intrastate pipelines and have adopted regulations similar to existing phmsa regulations. state regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law. compliance with these rules has resulted in an overall increase in maintenance costs. phmsa has issued notices of proposed rulemaking in april of 2015 and march of 2016, which have proposed new, more prescriptive regulations related to the overall operations of boardwalk pipeline interstate natural gas and ngls pipelines, which, if adopted as proposed, will cause it to incur increased capital and operating costs, experience operational delays and result in potential adverse impacts to its ability to reliably serve its customers. additionally, requirements that are imposed under the 2011 act and 2016 act may also increase boardwalk pipeline capital and operating costs or impact the operation of its pipeline. boardwalk pipeline has entered into firm transportation contracts with shippers on certain of its expansion projects that utilize the design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, based upon the authority boardwalk pipeline received from phmsa to operate those pipelines at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline smys. phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, it could affect boardwalk pipeline ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipeline assets and it could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. changes in energy prices, including natural gas, oil and ngls, impact the supply of and demand for those commodities, which impact boardwalk pipeline business. boardwalk pipeline customers, especially producers, are directly impacted by changes in commodity prices. the prices of natural gas, oil and ngls fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors. the declines in the levels of natural gas, oil and ngls prices experienced in 2015 and 2016 have adversely affected the businesses of boardwalk pipeline producer customers and reduced the demand for boardwalk pipeline services and could result in defaults or the non-renewal of boardwalk pipeline contracted capacity when existing contracts expire. future increases in the price of natural gas and ngls could make alternative energy and feedstock sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas and ngls. a reduced level of demand for natural gas and ngls could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems and reduce the demand of its services. a significant portion of boardwalk pipeline debt will mature over the next five years and will need to be paid or refinanced and changes to the debt and equity markets could adversely affect its business. a significant portion of boardwalk pipeline debt is set to mature in the next five years, including its revolving credit facility. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to refinance its maturing debt on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, depending on numerous factors, including its financial condition and prospects at the time and the then current state of the banking and capital markets in the u.s. limited access to the debt and equity markets could adversely affect boardwalk pipeline business. boardwalk pipeline current strategy is to fund its announced growth projects through currently available financing options, including utilizing cash generated from operations, borrowings under its revolving credit facility, accessing proceeds from its subordinated loan agreement with a subsidiary of the company and accessing the capital markets. changes in the debt and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. instability in the 35 table of contents financial markets may increase boardwalk pipeline cost of capital while reducing the availability of funds. this may affect its ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund its operations or growth projects. if the debt and equity markets were not available, it is not certain if other adequate financing options would be available to boardwalk pipeline on terms and conditions that it would find acceptable. any disruption in the capital markets could require boardwalk pipeline to take additional measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until it can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs. such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing its operations to lower expenses and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. boardwalk pipeline may be unable to execute its growth strategy or take advantage of certain business opportunities. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. the ferc rate-making policies could limit its ability to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc, including the types and terms of services boardwalk pipeline may offer to its customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities, recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. an adverse ferc action in any of these areas could affect boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. this regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to the ferc regulations. the ferc can also deny boardwalk pipeline the right to abandon certain facilities from service. the ferc also regulates the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. for cost-based services, the ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge. the basic elements that the ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. the ferc has issued a notice of inquiry concerning the inclusion of income taxes in the rates of an interstate pipeline that operates as a master limited partnership. the ultimate outcome of this proceeding could impact the maximum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge on its ferc regulated pipelines. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to earn a return or recover all of its costs, including certain costs associated with pipeline integrity activities, through existing or future rates. the ferc or boardwalk pipeline customers can challenge the existing rates on any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines. such a challenge against boardwalk pipeline could adversely affect its ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in executing its strategy to grow and diversify its business. boardwalk pipeline relies primarily on the revenues generated from its natural gas long-haul transportation and storage services. negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on boardwalk pipeline financial condition and results of operations than if it maintained more diverse assets. boardwalk pipeline is pursuing a strategy of growing and diversifying its business through acquisition and development of assets in complementary areas of the midstream energy sector, such as liquids transportation and storage assets. boardwalk pipeline ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to expand its existing business lines and to close and execute on accretive acquisitions. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. any such transactions involve potential risks that may include, among other things: the diversion of management and employees attention from other business concerns; inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies; 36 table of contents a decrease in boardwalk pipeline liquidity as a result of using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project; a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if it incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals. additionally, acquisitions also contain the following risks: an inability to integrate successfully the businesses boardwalk pipeline acquires; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which it is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies may exclude from coverage; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. boardwalk pipeline ability to replace expiring gas storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all are subject to market conditions. boardwalk pipeline owns and operates substantial natural gas storage facilities. the market for the storage and pal services that it offers is impacted by the factors and market conditions discussed above for boardwalk pipeline transportation services, and is also impacted by natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. when market conditions cause a narrowing of time period price spreads and a decline in the price volatility of natural gas, these factors adversely impact the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its storage and pal services. boardwalk pipeline operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which it may not be adequately insured. there are a variety of operating risks inherent in transporting and storing natural gas, ethylene and ngls, such as leaks and other forms of releases, explosions, fires, cyber-attacks and mechanical problems, some of which could have catastrophic consequences. additionally, the nature and location of boardwalk pipeline business may make it susceptible to catastrophic losses from hurricanes or other named storms, particularly with regard to its assets in the gulf coast region, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, and severe winter weather. any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of boardwalk pipeline operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations and substantial financial losses. the location of pipelines in hcas, which includes populated areas, residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from some of these risks. boardwalk pipeline currently possesses property, business interruption, cyber threat and general liability insurance, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage boardwalk pipeline does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. 37 table of contents climate change legislation and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases ( ghgs ) could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for boardwalk pipeline pipeline and storage services. climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of greenhouse gases. while no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented at the federal level, the environmental protection agency ( epa ) and states or groupings of states have pursued legal initiatives in recent years that seek to reduce ghg emissions through efforts that include consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes and ghg reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources. in particular, the epa has adopted rules that, among other things, establish certain permit reviews for ghg emissions from certain large stationary sources, which reviews could require securing permits at covered facilities emitting ghgs and meeting defined technological standards for those ghg emissions. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the u.s., including, among others, onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities as well as gathering, compression and boosting facilities and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a ghg, from oil and natural gas operations. in june of 2016, the epa published regulations requiring certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas and volatile organic compound emissions and, in november of 2016, the epa began seeking additional information on methane emissions from certain existing facilities and operations in the oil and natural gas sector that could be developed into federal guidelines that states must consider in developing their own rules for regulating sources within their borders. in december of 2015, the u.s. joined the international community at the 21st conference of the parties of the united nations framework convention on climate change in paris, france that prepared an agreement requiring member countries to review and represent a progression in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set ghg emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. this paris agreement was signed by the u.s. in april of 2016 and entered into force in november of 2016, however this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their ghg emissions, but rather includes pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. the adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghg in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climate events. risks related to us and our subsidiary, loews hotels holding corporation loews hotels business may be adversely affected by various operating risks common to the lodging industry, including competition, excess supply and dependence on business travel and tourism. loews hotels owns and operates hotels which have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets. a typical office property, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provide a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. hotels, on the other hand, generate revenue from guests that typically stay at the hotel for only a few nights, which causes the room rate and occupancy levels at each hotel to change every day, and results in earnings that can be highly volatile. in addition, loews hotels properties are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond loews hotels control, including: changes in general economic conditions, including the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy and financial markets; 38 table of contents war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as norovirus, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ), h1n1 ( swine flu ), ebola and zika virus; natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, oil spills, fires and nuclear incidents; any material reduction or prolonged interruption of public utilities and services, including water and electric power; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending and cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business due to adverse economic conditions or otherwise; decreased need for business-related travel due to innovations in business-related technology; competition from other hotels and alternative accommodations, such as airbnb, in the markets in which loews hotels operates; excess supply of hotels in the markets in which loews hotels operates; requirements for periodic capital reinvestment to repair and upgrade hotels; increases in operating costs including, but not limited to, labor (including minimum wage increases), workers compensation, benefits, insurance, food, energy and unanticipated costs resulting from force majeure events, due to inflation, new or different federal, state or local governmental regulations and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations; the financial condition and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its impact on travel; decreased airline capacities and routes; statements, actions or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for loews hotels properties generally as a result of certain labor tactics; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers, geographic concentration of loews hotels operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; and relationships with third-party property owners, developers, landlords and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners and/or partners may terminate management or joint venture agreements. these factors, and the reputational repercussions of these factors, could adversely affect, and from time to time have adversely affected, individual hotels and hotels in particular regions. 39 table of contents loews hotels is exposed to the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate, which could increase its costs, reduce its profits, limit its ability to respond to market conditions or restrict its growth strategy. loews hotels proportion of owned and leased properties, compared to the number of properties that it manages for third-party owners, is larger than that of some of its competitors. real estate ownership and leasing is subject to risks not applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership; real estate, insurance, zoning, tax, environmental and eminent domain laws; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and the availability of replacement financing; risks associated with the possibility that cost increases will outpace revenue increases and that, in the event of an economic slowdown, a high proportion of fixed costs will make it difficult to reduce costs to the extent required to offset declining revenues; risks associated with real estate leases, including the possibility of rent increases and the inability to renew or extend upon favorable terms; fluctuations in real estate values and potential impairments in the value of loews hotels assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which loews hotels properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the consumer base served. loews hotels generally expects revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of its industry may contribute to fluctuation in loews hotels results of operations and financial condition. loews hotels operates in a highly competitive industry, both for customers and for acquisitions of new properties. the lodging industry is highly competitive. loews hotels properties compete with other hotels and alternative accommodations based on a number of factors, including room rates, quality of accommodations, service levels and amenities, location, brand affiliation, reputation and reservation systems. new hotels may be constructed and these additions to supply create new competitors, in some cases without corresponding increases in demand for hotel rooms. some of its competitors also have greater financial and marketing resources than loews hotels, which could allow them to reduce their rates, offer greater convenience, services or amenities, build new hotels in direct competition with loews hotels existing hotels, improve their properties, expand and improve their marketing efforts, all of which could adversely affect the ability of loews hotels properties to attract prospective guests as well as limit or slow future growth. in addition, travelers can book stays on websites that facilitate the short-term rental of homes and apartments from owners, thereby providing an alternative to hotel rooms. loews hotels also competes for hotel acquisitions with entities that have similar investment objectives as it does. this competition could limit the number of suitable investment opportunities. it may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to loews hotels, making it more difficult for loews hotels to acquire new properties on attractive terms or on the terms contemplated in its business plan. 40 table of contents any deterioration in the quality or reputation of loews hotels brands could have an adverse effect on its reputation and business. loews hotels brands and its reputation are among its most important assets. its ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of its brands and their associated reputation. if its brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, loews hotels may be unable to attract guests to its properties, and may further be unable to attract or retain joint venture partners or hotel owners. the occurrence of accidents or injuries, natural disasters, crime, individual guest notoriety or similar events at loews hotels properties can harm its reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in its business. because of the broad expanse of loews hotels business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. in addition, the recent expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity. loews hotels properties are geographically concentrated, which exposes its business to the effects of regional events and occurrences. loews hotels has a concentration of hotels in florida. specifically, as of december 31, 2016, seven hotels, representing approximately 50% of rooms in its system, were located in florida. the concentration of hotels in one region or a limited number of markets may expose loews hotels to risks of adverse economic and other developments that are greater than if its portfolio were more geographically diverse. these developments include regional economic downturns, a decline in the popularity of or access to area tourist attractions, such as theme parks, significant increases in the number of loews hotels competitors hotels in these markets and potentially higher local property, sales and income taxes in the geographic markets in which it is concentrated. in addition, loews hotels properties in florida are subject to the effects of adverse acts of nature, such as hurricanes, strong winds and flooding, which have in the past caused damage to its hotels in florida, which may in the future be intensified as a result of climate change, as well as outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as zika virus. depending on the severity of these acts of nature, loews hotels could be required to close all or substantially all of its hotels in the florida market for a period of time while the necessary repairs and renovations, as applicable, are undertaken, or until the adverse condition has dissipated. the growth and use of alternative reservation channels adversely affects loews hotels business. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for guests at loews hotels properties is booked through internet travel and other intermediaries. in most cases, loews hotels has agreements with such intermediaries and pays them commissions and/or fees for sales of its rooms through their systems. if such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions or fees, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from loews hotels. there can be no assurance that loews hotels will be able to negotiate such agreements in the future with terms as favorable as those that exist today. moreover, these intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites and other outlets. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to loews hotels brands. under certain circumstances, loews hotels insurance coverage may not cover all possible losses, and it may not be able to renew its insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. although loews hotels maintains various property, casualty and other insurance policies, proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage loews hotels does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. 41 table of contents labor shortages could restrict loews hotels ability to operate its properties or grow its business or result in increased labor costs that could reduce its profits. loews hotels properties are staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week by thousands of employees. if it is unable to attract, retain, train and engage skilled employees, its ability to manage and staff its properties adequately could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. staffing shortages could also hinder its ability to grow and expand its business. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at its properties, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase its labor costs. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face additional risks and uncertainties described below. acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in the united states or abroad, the continuation or escalation of existing armed hostilities or the outbreak of additional hostilities, including military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on us and the assets and businesses of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from an act of terrorism. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism could also result in increased political, economic and financial market instability, a decline in energy consumption and volatility in the price of oil and gas, which could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services and boardwalk pipeline transportation and storage services. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries operate could adversely impact us. changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties applicable to us or our subsidiaries or changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof could materially and adversely impact our and our subsidiaries tax liability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including the amount of cash our subsidiaries have available to distribute to their shareholders, including us. in particular, potential changes to tax laws relating to tax credits, the corporate tax rate or the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (and thus the rate at which cna discounts its long term care reserves), foreign earnings and publicly traded partnerships could have such material adverse effects. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state, local, foreign and international environmental laws, including those relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal, removal or clean up of hazardous wastes and other activities relating to the protection of the environment. many of such laws have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. boardwalk pipeline is also subject to environmental laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release and requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. further, existing environmental laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof may be amended and new laws may be adopted in the future. 42 table of contents failures or interruptions in or breaches to our or our subsidiaries computer systems could materially and adversely affect our or our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries are dependent upon information technologies, computer systems and networks to conduct operations and are reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our businesses. we are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our businesses. any failure of our or our subsidiaries computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. computer, telecommunications and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including among others, storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, fires, utility outages theft, design defects, human error or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. in addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called cyber attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. in particular, the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate energy assets may be specific targets of cyber attacks, which can have catastrophic consequences and there have also been reports that hotel chains, among other consumer facing businesses, have been subject to various cyber attacks targeting payment card and other sensitive consumer information. breaches of our computer security infrastructure can result from actions by our employees, vendors, third party administrators or by unknown third parties, and may disrupt our operations, cause damage to our assets and surrounding areas and impact our data framework or cause a failure to protect personal information of customers or employees. the foregoing risks relating to disruption of service, interruption of operations and data loss could impact our and our subsidiaries ability to timely perform critical business functions, resulting in disruption or deterioration in our and our subsidiaries operations and business and expose us to monetary and reputational damages. in addition, potential exposures include substantially increased compliance costs and required computer system upgrades and security related investments. the breach of confidential information also could give rise to legal liability and regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. loss of key vendor relationships or issues relating to the transitioning of vendor relationships could result in a materially adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries rely on products, equipment and services provided by many third party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers in the united states and abroad, which exposes us and them to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. these include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services (including, in the case of cna, claims administrators performing significant claims administration and adjudication functions). certain products, equipment and services may be available from a limited number of sources. if one or more key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products, equipment or services at the requisite level for any reason, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may experience a material adverse effect on our or their business, operations and reputation. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, pipeline and storage assets at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. in particular, diamond offshore is currently experiencing declining demand for certain offshore drilling rigs as a result of excess rig supply in the industry and depressed market conditions. as a result, diamond offshore may incur additional asset impairments, rig retirements and/or rigs being scrapped. we also test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. asset impairment evaluations by us and our subsidiaries with respect to both long-lived assets and goodwill are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could 43 table of contents result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. we and our subsidiaries face competition for senior executives and qualified specialized talent. we and our subsidiaries depend on the services of our key personnel, who possess skills critical to the operation of our and their businesses. our and our subsidiaries executive management teams are highly experienced and possess extensive skills in their relevant industries. the ability to retain senior executives and to attract and retain highly skilled professionals and personnel with specialized industry and technical experience is important to our and our subsidiaries success and future growth. competition for this talent can be intense, and we and our subsidiaries may not be successful in our efforts. the unexpected loss of the services of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us and our subsidiaries and could hinder our and their ability to effectively compete in the various industries in which we and they operate. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. while we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims, an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on us. from time to time we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation, for which we and they may be unable to accurately assess the level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a significant adverse effect on our or their consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings and disputes. these matters may include, among others, contract disputes, claims disputes, reinsurance disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment and tax matters and other litigation incidental to our or their businesses. although our current assessment is that, other than as disclosed in this report, there is no pending litigation that could have a significant adverse impact, it is difficult to predict the outcome or effect of any litigation matters and if our assessment proves to be in error, then the outcome of litigation could have a significant impact on our financial statements. 44 table of contents short term investments the carrying value of the components of cna short term investments are presented in the following table: december 31 2016 2015 (in millions) short term investments: commercial paper $ 733 $ 998 u.s. treasury securities 433 411 money market funds 44 60 other 197 191 total short term investments $ 1,407 $ 1,660 72 table of contents insurance reserves the level of reserves cna maintains represents its best estimate, as of a particular point in time, of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on cna assessment of facts and circumstances known at that time. reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates that cna derives, generally utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques, from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, both internal and external, many of which are highly uncertain. as noted below, cna reviews its reserves for each segment of its business periodically, and any such review could result in the need to increase reserves in amounts which could be material and could adversely affect our results of operations and equity and cna business and insurer financial strength and corporate debt ratings. further information on reserves is provided in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value 83 table of contents of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2016 and 2015 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $544 million and $481 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $605 million and $519 million at december 31, 2016 and 2015. at december 31, 2016, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase interest expense by approximately $2 million on an annual basis. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2016 and 2015, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. at december 31, 2016, we had no foreign exchange rate risk on our investments. at december 31, 2015, our foreign transactions were primarily denominated in japanese yen, saudi arabian riyals, chinese yuan and european monetary unit. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2015, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous decrease of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2016. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 84 table of contents the following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2016 2015 2016 2015 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities long $ 425 $ 540 $ (106) $ (135) short (36 ) (166) 9 42 options purchased 14 15 8 40 written (8 ) (28) (4) (36) other derivatives 1 (1) 56 (78) interest rate (2): fixed maturities long 601 120 (1) (5) short term investments 3,064 2,884 other invested assets 55 102 (1) foreign exchange (3): forwards and options 9 (8) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points and (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20%. other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2016 2015 2016 2015 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 110 $ 197 $ (28) $ (49) limited partnership investments 3,220 3,313 (449) (478) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) 40,893 39,581 (2,571) (2,562) short term investments (a) 1,701 1,926 (1) (2) other invested assets, primarily mortgage loans 594 688 (30) (31) other derivatives 3 5 13 13 foreign exchange (3): other invested assets 36 44 (5) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points and (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(399) and $(383) at december 31, 2016 and 2015. 85 table of contentsrisk factors. our business and the businesses of our subsidiaries face many risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. we have described below the most significant risks facing us and our subsidiaries. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be as significant that may also impact our business or the businesses of our subsidiaries. 16 table of contents you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the information we make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, are public companies and file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries with the sec and the information they make available to the public before investing in any of their securities. risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves which would result in a charge to cna earnings. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex management estimates developed utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques as of a given reporting date. the reserve estimation process involves a high degree of judgment and variability and is subject to a number of factors which are highly uncertain. these variables can be affected by both changes in internal processes and external events. key variables include claim severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claim handling policies and procedures, case reserving approach, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of injury, illness, sickness and diseases contracted. there is generally a higher degree of variability in estimating required reserves for long-tail coverages, such as general liability and workers compensation, as they require a relatively longer period of time for claims to be reported and settled. the impact of changes in inflation and medical costs are also more pronounced for long-tail coverages due to the longer settlement period. cna is also subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves. the effects of unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict. emerging or potential claim and coverage issues include, but are not limited to, uncertainty in future medical costs in workers compensation. in particular, medical cost inflation could be greater than expected due to new treatments, drugs and devices; increased health care utilization; and/or the future costs of health care facilities. in addition, the relationship between workers compensation and government and private health care providers could change, potentially shifting costs to workers compensation. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the judgments necessary to establish reserve levels, cna continually reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops from the actual reporting and settlement of claims and as the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. if cna recorded reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. 17 table of contents cna actual experience could vary from the key assumptions used to determine active life reserves for long term care policies. cna active life reserves for long term care policies are based on cna best estimate assumptions as of december 31, 2015 due to an unlocking at that date. key assumptions include morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force), discount rate and future premium rate increases. these assumptions, which are critical bases for its reserve estimates are inherently uncertain. if actual experience varies from these assumptions or the future outlook for these assumptions changes, cna may be required to increase its reserves. see the long term care policyholder reserves portion of the insurance reserves section of md&amp;a in item 7 for more information. estimating future experience for long term care policies is highly uncertain because the required projection period is very long and there is limited historical and industry data available to cna, as only a small portion of the long term care policies which have been written to date are in claims paying status. morbidity and persistency trends, inclusive of mortality, can be volatile and may be negatively affected by many factors including, but not limited to, policyholder behavior, judicial decisions regarding policy terms, socioeconomic factors, cost of care inflation, changes in health trends and advances in medical care. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in cna reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting cna obligations under long term care policies, which may require changes to its reserves. this risk is more significant for cna long term care products because the long potential duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. further, changes to the corporate tax code may also affect the rate at which cna discounts its reserves. in addition, cna may not receive regulatory approval for the level of premium rate increases it requests. any adverse deviation between the level of future premium rate increases approved and the level included in cna reserving assumptions may require an increase to its reserves. if cna estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, including changes in assumptions, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe and systemic losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, floods, riots, strikes, civil commotion, cyber attacks, pandemics and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance assumed and ceded, reinsurance reinstatement premiums and state residual market assessments, if any. it can take a long time for the ultimate cost of any catastrophe losses to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. as a result of the items discussed above, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. additionally, catastrophic events could cause cna to exhaust its available reinsurance limits and could adversely affect the cost and availability of reinsurance. claim frequency and severity for some lines of business can be correlated to an external factor such as economic activity, financial market volatility, increasing health care costs or changes in the legal or regulatory environment. claim frequency and severity can also be correlated to insureds use of common business practices, equipment, vendors or software. this can result in multiple insured losses emanating out of the same underlying cause. in these instances, cna may be subject to increased claim frequency and severity across multiple policies or lines of 18 table of contents business concurrently. while cna does not define such systemic losses as catastrophes for financial reporting purposes, they are similar to catastrophes in terms of the uncertainty and potential impact on its results. cna has exposure related to a&amp;ep claims, which could result in material losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer or lpt ). the cumulative amount ceded under the loss portfolio transfer as of december 31, 2017 is $2.9 billion. if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, net losses incurred on a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against earnings. these charges could be substantial. additionally, if the a&amp;ep claims exceed the limit of the loss portfolio transfer, cna will need to assess whether to purchase additional limit or to reassume claim handling responsibility for a&amp;ep claims from an affiliate of nico. any additional reinsurance premium or future claim handling costs would also reduce cna earnings. cna uses analytical models to assist its decision making in key areas such as pricing, reserving and capital modeling and may be adversely affected if actual results differ materially from the model outputs and related analyses. cna uses various modeling techniques and data analytics (e.g., scenarios, predictive, stochastic and/or forecasting) to analyze and estimate exposures, loss trends and other risks associated with its assets and liabilities. this includes both proprietary and third party modeled outputs and related analyses to assist in decision-making related to underwriting, pricing, capital allocation, reserving, investing, reinsurance and catastrophe risk, among other things. cna incorporates therein numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of policyholder behavior, loss frequency and severity, interest rates, equity markets, inflation, capital requirements, and currency exchange rates, among others. the modeled outputs and related analyses from both proprietary and third parties are subject to various assumptions, uncertainties, model design errors and the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis, including those arising from the use of historical internal and industry data and assumptions. in addition, the effectiveness of any model can be degraded by operational risks including, but not limited to, the improper use of the model, including input errors, data errors and human error. as a result, actual results may differ materially from cna modeled results. the profitability and financial condition of cna substantially depends on the extent to which its actual experience is consistent with the assumptions cna uses in its models and the ultimate model outputs. if, based upon these models or other factors, cna misprices its products or fails to appropriately estimate the risks it is exposed to, its business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected. cna faces intense competition in its industry. all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services to remain competitive. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities, some of which may be larger or have greater financial or other resources than cna does, for both distributors and customers. this includes agents and brokers who may increasingly compete with cna to the extent that they continue to have direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk. insurers compete on the basis of many factors, including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. the competitor landscape has evolved substantially in recent years, with significant 19 table of contents consolidation and new market entrants, resulting in increased pressures on cna ability to remain competitive, particularly in implementing pricing that is both attractive to cna customer base and risk appropriate to cna. the property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, resulting in less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. during periods in which price competition is high, cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. as a result, cna premium levels and expense ratio could be materially adversely impacted. cna markets its insurance products worldwide primarily through independent insurance agents and insurance brokers, who also promote and distribute the products of cna competitors. any change in cna relationships with its distribution network agents and brokers, including as a result of consolidation and their increased promotion and distribution of cna competitors products, could adversely affect cna ability to sell its products. as a result, cna business volume and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. cna may be adversely affected by technological changes or disruptions in the insurance marketplace. technological changes in the way insurance transactions are completed in the marketplace, and cna ability to react effectively to such change, may present significant competitive risks. for example, more insurers are utilizing big data analytics to make underwriting and other decisions that impact product design and pricing. if such utilization is more effective than how cna uses similar data and information, cna will be at a competitive disadvantage. there can be no assurance that cna will continue to compete effectively with its industry peers due to technological changes; accordingly this may have a material adverse effect on cna business and results of operations. in addition, agents and brokers, technology companies or other third parties may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. for example, they may create a digitally enabled distribution channel that may adversely impact cna competitive position. cna efforts or the efforts of agents and brokers with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize greater levels of data and technology, could adversely impact cna business relationships with independent agents and brokers who currently market its products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. cna may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, which could result in increased exposure to risk or a decrease in cna underwriting commitments. cna purchases reinsurance to help manage its exposure to risk. under cna ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost it deems acceptable, cna may have increased exposure to risk. alternatively, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers, which could result in higher net incurred losses. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefit reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna reinsurance carriers have experienced credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of cna contractual relationship, which indicates an increase in the likelihood that cna will not be able to recover amounts due. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if the amounts due from reinsurers that cna is able to collect are less than the amount recorded by cna with respect to such amounts due, its incurred losses will be higher. 20 table of contents cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies and/or who purchase retrospectively rated policies, which could result in higher net incurred losses. a portion of cna business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and is reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose cna to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium, which may be significant. as a result, cna is exposed to policyholder credit risk. if the amounts due from policyholders that cna is able to collect are less than the amounts recorded with respect to such amounts due, cna net incurred losses will be higher. cna may incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from changes in the financial markets. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit spread, issuer default, equity prices and foreign currency, which are unpredictable. financial markets are highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, monetary policies, tax policies, domestic and international geopolitical issues and many other factors. changes in financial markets including fluctuations in interest rates, credit, equity prices and foreign currency prices, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments, the realization of investment income and the rate at which it discounts certain liabilities. cna has significant holdings in fixed income investments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. a decline in interest rates may reduce the returns earned on new fixed income investments, thereby reducing cna net investment income, while an increase in interest rates may reduce the value of its existing fixed income investments. the value of cna fixed income investments is also subject to risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of issuers of the investments cna holds or in the underlying collateral of the security. any such impairments which cna deems to be other-than-temporary would result in a charge to earnings. in addition, cna invests a portion of its assets in limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed income investments. limited partnership investments generally provide a lower level of liquidity than fixed maturity or equity investments, which may also limit cna ability to withdraw assets. further, cna holds a portfolio of commercial mortgage loans. cna is subject to risk related to the recoverability of loan balances, which is influenced by declines in the estimated cash flows from underlying property leases, fair value of collateral and creditworthiness of tenants of the underlying properties, where lease payments directly service the loan. collecting amounts from borrowers that are less than the amounts recorded would result in a charge to earnings. as a result of these factors, cna may not earn an adequate return on its investments, may be required to write down the value of its investments and may incur losses on the disposition of its investments. inability to detect and prevent significant employee or third party service provider misconduct or inadvertent errors and omissions could result in a material adverse effect on cna operations. cna may incur losses which arise from employees or third party service providers engaging in intentional misconduct, fraud, errors and omissions, failure to comply with internal guidelines, including with respect to underwriting authority, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. cna controls may not be able to detect all possible circumstances of employee and third party service provider non-compliant activity and the internal structures in place to prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. any losses relating to such non-compliant activity could adversely affect cna results of operations. 21 table of contents cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of cna legal entity statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as lloyd s, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable jurisdiction regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, cna may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business in the applicable jurisdictions and specialized markets. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimated insurance reserves, the occurrence of a catastrophic event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, which severely deteriorates its capital position, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. globally, insurance regulators are working cooperatively to develop a common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups. finalization and adoption of this framework could increase cna prescribed capital requirement, the level at which regulatory scrutiny intensifies, as well as significantly increase its cost of regulatory compliance. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its corporate obligations, are limited by insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary insurance regulator are generally limited to amounts determined by formulas that vary by jurisdiction. if cna is restricted from paying or receiving intercompany dividends, by regulatory rule or otherwise, cna may not be able to fund its corporate obligations and debt service requirements from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, including, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and s&amp;p global ratings ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital adequacy, enterprise risk management practices, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future as a result of any significant financial loss or possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a significant lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse affect on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. 22 table of contents cna is subject to extensive regulations that restrict its ability to do business and generate revenues. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders and third-party claimants rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which cna conducts its business. any changes in regulation could impose significant burdens on cna. in addition, the lloyd marketplace sets rules under which its members, including cna hardy syndicate, operate. these rules and regulations relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency (including risk-based capital measures), government-supported backstops for certain catastrophic events (including terrorism), investment restrictions, accounting and reporting methodology, establishment of reserves and potential assessments of funds to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. state jurisdictions ensure compliance with such regulations through market conduct exams, which may result in losses to the extent non-compliance is ascertained, either as a result of failure to document transactions properly or failure to comply with internal guidelines, or otherwise. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible or restrict cna from withdrawing from unprofitable lines of business or unprofitable market areas. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. the united kingdom expected exit from the european union is expected to increase the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of cna european business. in 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit. as a result of the referendum, in 2017 the british government formally commenced the process to leave the e.u. and began negotiating the terms of treaties that will govern the u.k. future relationship with the e.u. although the terms of any future treaties are unknown, cna believes changes in its international operating platform will be required to allow cna to continue to write business in the e.u. after the completion of brexit. therefore, cna has begun the process of establishing a new european subsidiary in luxembourg. as a result of these changes, the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of cna european business is likely to increase. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. the worldwide demand for diamond offshore drilling services has historically been dependent on the price of oil and has declined significantly as a result of the decline in oil prices, and demand has continued to be depressed in 2017. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends in large part upon the oil and natural gas industry offshore exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in oil and gas prices. commencing in the second half of 2014, oil prices declined significantly, resulting in a sharp decline in the demand for offshore drilling services, including services that diamond offshore provides, and adversely affecting diamond offshore operations and cash flows in 2015, 2016 and 2017, compared to previous years. any prolonged continuation of low oil prices would have a material adverse effect on many of diamond offshore customers and, therefore, on demand for its services and on its business. oil prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control. 23 table of contents an increase in the price of oil and gas will not necessarily result in an increase in offshore drilling activity or an increase in the market demand for diamond offshore rigs, although, historically, higher commodity prices have generally resulted in increases in offshore drilling projects. the timing of commitment to offshore activity in a cycle depends on project deployment times, reserve replacement needs, availability of capital and alternative options for resource development. timing can also be affected by availability, access to, and cost of equipment to perform work. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which has been cyclical and is significantly affected by many factors outside of its control. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices, worldwide demand for oil and gas and a variety of political and economic factors. the level of offshore drilling activity is adversely affected when operators reduce or defer new investment in offshore projects, reduce or suspend their drilling budgets or reallocate their drilling budgets away from offshore drilling in favor of other priorities, such as shale or other land-based projects. as a result, diamond offshore business and the oil and gas industry in general are subject to cyclical fluctuations. as a result of the cyclical fluctuations in the market, there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and lower dayrates, followed by periods of higher demand, shorter rig supply and higher dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such fluctuations. periods of lower demand or excess rig supply, which have occurred in the recent past and are continuing, intensify the competition in the industry and often result in periods of lower utilization and lower dayrates. during these periods, diamond offshore rigs may not obtain contracts for future work and may be idle for long periods of time or may be able to obtain work only under contracts with lower dayrates or less favorable terms. additionally, prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of further impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. diamond offshore industry is highly competitive, with oversupply and intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants. some of diamond offshore competitors may be larger companies, have larger or more technologically advanced fleets and have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation in the past and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs, cancelation or termination of drilling contracts and established rigs coming off contract have contributed to the current oversupply of drilling rigs, intensifying price competition. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its drilling contracts will not be terminated early or that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. currently, diamond offshore customers may terminate their drilling contracts under certain circumstances, such as the destruction or loss of a drilling rig or if diamond offshore suspends drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, excessive downtime for repairs, failure to meet minimum performance criteria (including customer acceptance testing) or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods, often by tendering contractually specified termination amounts, which may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of the contract. during depressed market conditions, such as those currently in effect, certain customers have utilized such contract clauses to seek to renegotiate or terminate a drilling contract or claim that diamond offshore has breached provisions of its drilling contracts in order to avoid their obligations to diamond offshore under circumstances where diamond offshore believes it is in compliance with the 24 table of contents contracts. additionally, because of depressed commodity prices, restricted credit markets, economic downturns, changes in priorities or strategy or other factors beyond diamond offshore control, a customer may no longer want or need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower dayrate. for these reasons, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of diamond offshore existing drilling contracts, terminate their contracts without justification or repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. as a result of such contract renegotiations or terminations, diamond offshore contract backlog may be adversely impacted, it might not recover any compensation (or any recovery it obtains may not fully compensate it for the loss of the contract) and it may be required to idle one or more rigs for an extended period of time. diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts for its rigs. as of the date of this report, all of diamond offshore current customer contracts will expire between 2018 and 2020. diamond offshore ability to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts, will depend on various factors, including market conditions and the specific needs of its customers at such times. given the historically cyclical and highly competitive nature of the industry, diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace the contracts or it may be required to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts at dayrates that are below, and likely substantially below, existing dayrates, or that have terms that are less favorable than existing contracts. moreover, diamond offshore may be unable to secure contracts for these rigs. failure to secure contracts for a rig may result in a decision to cold stack the rig, which puts the rig at risk for impairment and may competitively disadvantage the rig as customers during the most recent market downturn have expressed a preference for ready or hot stacked rigs over cold-stacked rigs. diamond offshore contract drilling expense includes fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and dayrates. diamond offshore contract drilling expense includes all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation, maintenance and support of its drilling equipment, which is often not affected by changes in dayrates and utilization. during periods of reduced revenue and/or activity, certain of diamond offshore fixed costs will not decline and often it may incur additional operating costs, such as fuel and catering costs, for which it is generally reimbursed by the customer when a rig is under contract. during times of reduced utilization, reductions in costs may not be immediate as diamond offshore may incur additional costs associated with cold stacking a rig (particularly if diamond offshore cold stacks a newer rig, such as a drillship or other dp semisubmersible rig, for which cold stacking costs are typically substantially higher than for an older floater rig), or it may not be able to fully reduce the cost of its support operations in a particular geographic region due to the need to support the remaining drilling rigs in that region. accordingly, a decline in revenue due to lower dayrates and/or utilization may not be offset by a corresponding decrease in contract drilling expense. contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability of those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs generally provide for the payment of an agreed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs it incurs on the project. many of diamond offshore operating costs, such as labor costs, are unpredictable and may fluctuate based on events beyond its control. in addition, equipment repair and maintenance expenses vary depending on the type of activity the rig is performing, the age and condition of the equipment and general market factors impacting relevant parts, components and services. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in its operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may not be able to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore is subject to extensive domestic and international laws and regulations that could significantly limit its business activities and revenues and increase its costs. certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the united states government or other governmental or international authorities. these restrictions, sanctions and embargoes may prohibit or limit diamond offshore from participating in certain business activities in those countries. diamond offshore 25 table of contents operations are also subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties and the protection of the environment. laws and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly stringent, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject diamond offshore to civil or criminal enforcement action, for which it may not receive contractual indemnification or have insurance coverage, and could result in the issuance of injunctions restricting some or all of diamond offshore activities in the affected areas. diamond offshore may be required to make significant expenditures for additional capital equipment or inspections and recertifications to comply with existing or new governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity. in addition, diamond offshore business is negatively impacted when it performs certain regulatory inspections, which diamond offshore refers to as a special survey, that are due every five years for most of its rigs. the inspection interval for diamond offshore north sea rigs is two and one half years. these special surveys are generally performed in a shipyard and require scheduled downtime, which can negatively impact operating revenue. operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard, and inspection, repair and maintenance costs. repair and maintenance activities may result from the special survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. the number of rigs undergoing a special survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter to quarter. diamond offshore business may also be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between special surveys. although an intermediate survey normally does not require shipyard time, the survey may require some downtime for the rig. diamond offshore can provide no assurance as to the exact timing and/or duration of downtime associated with regulatory inspections, planned rig mobilizations and other shipyard projects. in addition, the offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, can be affected by changes in tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could limit drilling opportunities. diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel and damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to marine hazards, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. any of the foregoing events could result in significant damage or loss to diamond offshore properties and assets or the properties and assets of others, injury or death to rig personnel or others, significant loss of revenues and significant damage claims against diamond offshore. diamond offshore drilling contracts with its customers provide for varying levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities between its customers and diamond offshore with respect to the hazards and risks inherent in, and damages or losses arising out of, its operations, and diamond offshore may not be fully protected. diamond offshore contracts are individually negotiated, and the levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities in them can vary from contract to contract depending on market conditions, particular customer requirements and other factors existing at the time a contract is negotiated. 26 table of contents additionally, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be limited or prohibited by applicable law or such provisions may not be enforced by courts having jurisdiction, and diamond offshore could be held liable for substantial losses or damages and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities. the indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and the laws or courts of certain jurisdictions may enforce such provisions while other laws or courts may find them to be unenforceable. the law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to diamond offshore contracts. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore contracts with its customers, suppliers and subcontractors will fully protect it against all hazards and risks inherent in its operations. there can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will be financially able to do so or will otherwise honor their contractual obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which generally includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, certain risks and contingencies related to pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that it will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore insurance coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could result in significant loss to diamond offshore. significant portions of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with united states domestic operations. diamond offshore operations outside the united states accounted for approximately 58%, 66% and 79% of its total consolidated revenues for 2017, 2016 and 2015 and include, or have included, operations in south america, australia and southeast asia, europe, east and west africa, the mediterranean and mexico. because diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world, it is exposed to a variety of risks inherent in international operations, including risks of war or conflicts, political and economic instability and disruption, civil disturbance, acts of piracy, terrorism or other assaults on property or personnel, corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the u.s. government may consider to be state sponsors of terrorism), changes in global monetary and trade policies, laws and regulations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions on currency exchange, controls over the repatriation of income or capital and other risks. diamond offshore may not have insurance coverage for these risks, or it may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for such events at reasonable rates. diamond offshore operations may become restricted, disrupted or prohibited in any country in which any of these risks occur. diamond offshore is also subject to the regulations of the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to domestic and international anti-bribery laws and sanctions, trade laws and regulations, customs laws and regulations and other restrictions imposed by other governmental or international authorities. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to the equipping and operation of drilling rigs, import-export quotas or other trade barriers, repatriation of foreign earnings or capital, oil and gas exploration and development, local content requirements, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. 27 table of contents diamond offshore consolidated effective income tax rate may vary substantially from one reporting period to another. diamond offshore consolidated effective income tax rate is impacted by the mix between its domestic and international pre-tax earnings or losses, as well as the mix of the international tax jurisdictions in which it operates. diamond offshore cannot provide any assurances as to what its consolidated effective income tax rate will be in the future due to, among other factors, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of its business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as potential changes in u.s. and foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, changes in the administrative practices and precedents of tax authorities or any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts diamond offshore has provided for income taxes or deferred tax assets and liabilities in its consolidated financial statements. this variability may cause its consolidated effective income tax rate to vary substantially from one reporting period to another. diamond offshore may be required to accrue additional tax liability on certain of its foreign earnings. certain of diamond offshore international rigs are owned and operated, directly or indirectly, by diamond foreign asset company ( dfac ), a cayman islands subsidiary that it owns. it is diamond offshore intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of dfac and its foreign subsidiaries to finance its foreign activities. diamond offshore does not expect to provide for u.s. taxes on any earnings generated by dfac and its foreign subsidiaries, except to the extent that these earnings are immediately subjected to u.s. federal income tax, such as under the tax cut and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ). should a future distribution be made from any unremitted earnings of this subsidiary, diamond offshore may be required to record additional u.s. income taxes and/or withholding taxes in certain jurisdictions; however, it is not practical to estimate this potential liability. diamond offshore debt levels may limit its liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. diamond offshore business is highly capital intensive and dependent on having sufficient cash flow and/or available sources of financing in order to fund its capital expenditure requirements. as of december 31, 2017, diamond offshore had outstanding $2 billion of senior notes, maturing at various times from 2023 through 2043. as of february 9, 2018, diamond offshore had no outstanding borrowings and $1.5 billion available under its revolving credit facility to meet its short term liquidity requirements. diamond offshore may incur additional indebtedness in the future and borrow from time to time under its revolving credit facility to fund working capital or other needs, subject to compliance with its covenants. diamond offshore ability to meet its debt service obligations is dependent upon its future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its control. high levels of indebtedness could have negative consequences to diamond offshore, including: it may have difficulty satisfying its obligations with respect to its outstanding debt; it may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; it may need to use a substantial portion of available cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on its debt, which would reduce the amount of money available to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, the payment of dividends and other general corporate or business activities; vulnerability to the effects of general economic downturns, adverse industry conditions and adverse operating results could increase; flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and in its industry in general could be limited; 28 table of contents it may not have the ability to pursue business opportunities that become available; the amount of debt and the amount it must pay to service its debt obligations could place diamond offshore at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; customers may react adversely to its significant debt level and seek alternative service providers; and failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in its debt instruments that, among other things, require diamond offshore to maintain a specified ratio of its consolidated indebtedness to total capitalization and limit the ability of its subsidiaries to incur debt, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on its business. in addition, diamond offshore $1.5 billion revolving credit facility matures on october 22, 2020, except for $40 million of commitments that mature on march 17, 2019 and $60 million of commitments that mature on october 22, 2019. diamond offshore ability to renew or replace its revolving credit facility is dependent on numerous factors, including its financial condition and prospects at the time and the then current state of the bank and capital markets in the u.s. diamond offshore liquidity may be adversely affected if it is unable to replace the revolving credit facility upon acceptable terms when it matures. in july of 2017, moody downgraded diamond offshore corporate credit rating to ba3 with a negative outlook from ba2 with a stable outlook. in october of 2017, s&amp;p downgraded diamond offshore corporate credit rating to b+ from bb- with a negative outlook. these credit ratings are below investment grade and could raise the cost of financing. as a consequence, diamond offshore may not be able to issue additional debt in amounts and/or with terms that it considers to be reasonable. diamond offshore revolving credit facility bears interest at variable rates, based on its corporate credit rating and market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, diamond offshore cost to borrow under its revolving credit facility may also increase. although diamond offshore may employ hedging strategies such that a portion of the aggregate principal amount outstanding under this credit facility would effectively carry a fixed rate of interest, any hedging arrangement put in place may not offer complete protection from this risk. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp boardwalk pipeline may not be able to replace expiring natural gas transportation contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to market conditions. each year, a portion of boardwalk pipeline firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be replaced or renewed. over the past several years, as a result of current market conditions, boardwalk pipeline has renewed some expiring contracts at lower rates or for shorter terms than in the past. in addition to normal contract expirations, in the 2018 to 2020 timeframe, transportation agreements associated with boardwalk pipeline gulf south, texas gas and gulf crossing pipeline expansion projects, which were placed into service in 2008 and 2009, will expire. these projects were large, new pipeline expansions that were developed to serve growing production in texas, oklahoma and louisiana and anchored primarily by ten-year firm transportation agreements with producers and priced based on then current market conditions. as the terms of these remaining expansion contracts expire in 2018 through 2020, boardwalk pipeline will have significantly more transportation contract expirations than it has had during the past several years. if these contracts are renewed, boardwalk pipeline expects that the new contracts will be at lower rates and for shorter contract terms than the contracts they are replacing. if these contracts are renewed at current market rates, the revenues earned from these transportation contracts would be materially lower than they are today. for a discussion of current developments, see the firm transportation agreements portion of the results of operations boardwalk pipeline section of md&amp;a under item 7. 29 table of contents the narrowing of the price differentials between natural gas supplies and market demand for natural gas has reduced the transportation rates that boardwalk pipeline can charge. the transportation rates boardwalk pipeline is able to charge customers are heavily influenced by market trends (both short and longer term), including the available supply, geographical location of natural gas production, the competition between producing basins, competition with other pipelines for supply and markets, the demand for gas by end-users such as power plants, petrochemical facilities and lng export facilities and the price differentials between the gas supplies and the market demand for the gas (basis differentials). current market conditions have resulted in a sustained narrowing of basis differentials on certain portions of boardwalk pipeline pipeline system, which has reduced transportation rates that can be charged in the affected areas and adversely affected the contract terms boardwalk pipeline can secure from its customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts being renewed or replaced. the prevailing market conditions may also lead some of its customers to seek to renegotiate existing contracts to terms that are less attractive to boardwalk pipeline; for example, seeking a current price reduction in exchange for an extension of the contract term. boardwalk pipeline expects these market conditions to continue. boardwalk pipeline actual construction and development costs could exceed its forecasts, its anticipated cash flow from construction and development projects will not be immediate and its construction and development projects may not be completed on time or at all. boardwalk pipeline is engaged in multiple significant construction projects involving its existing assets and the construction of new facilities for which it has expended or will expend significant capital. boardwalk pipeline expects to continue to engage in the construction of additional growth projects and modifications of its system. when boardwalk pipeline builds a new pipeline or expands or modifies an existing facility, the design, construction and development occurs over an extended period of time, and it will not receive any revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed in service. typically, there are several years between when the project is announced and when customers begin using the new facilities. during this period, boardwalk pipeline spends capital and incurs costs without receiving any of the financial benefits associated with the projects. the construction of new assets involves regulatory (federal, state and local), landowner opposition, environmental, activist, legal, political, materials and labor costs, as well as operational and other risks that are difficult to predict and beyond boardwalk pipeline control. any of these projects may not be completed on time or at all due to a variety of factors, may be impacted by significant cost overruns or may be materially changed prior to completion as a result of developments or circumstances that boardwalk pipeline is not aware of when it commits to the project, including the inability of any shipper to provide adequate credit support or to otherwise perform their obligations under any precedent agreements. any of these events could result in material unexpected costs or have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its growth projects. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc, including the types and terms of services boardwalk pipeline may offer to its customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities and recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. an adverse ferc action in any of these areas could affect boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. this regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to the ferc regulations. the ferc can also deny boardwalk pipeline the right to abandon certain facilities from service. the ferc also regulates the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. for cost-based services, the ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge. the basic elements that the ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. the ferc has issued a notice of inquiry concerning the inclusion of income 30 table of contents taxes in the rates of an interstate pipeline that operates as a master limited partnership. the ultimate outcome of this proceeding could impact the maximum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge on its ferc regulated pipelines. the ferc has not finalized this proceeding. enacted on december 22, 2017, the tax act changed several provisions of the federal tax code, including a reduction in the maximum corporate tax rate. since the tax act was signed into law, filings have been made at the ferc requesting that the ferc require pipelines to lower their transportation rates to account for lower corporate taxes. following the effective date of the law, the ferc orders granting certificates to construct proposed pipeline facilities have directed pipelines proposing new rates for service on those facilities to re-file such rates so that the rates reflect the reduction in the corporate tax rate, and the ferc has issued data requests in pending certificate proceedings for proposed pipeline facilities requesting pipelines to explain the impacts of the reduction in the corporate tax rate on the rate proposals in those proceedings and to provide re-calculated initial rates for service on the proposed pipeline facilities. the ferc may enact other regulations or issue further requests to pipelines regarding the impact of the corporate tax rate change on the rates. the ferc establishment of a just and reasonable rate is based on many components, and the reduction in the corporate tax rate may only impact two such components, the allowance for income taxes and the amount for accumulated deferred income taxes. the ferc or boardwalk pipeline shippers may challenge rates in the future, which could result in a new rate that may be lower than the rates boardwalk pipeline currently charges. the ferc or boardwalk pipeline customers can challenge the existing rates on any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines. such a challenge against boardwalk pipeline could adversely affect its ability to charge rates that would cover future increases in its costs or even to continue to collect rates to maintain its current revenue levels that are designed to permit a reasonable opportunity to recover current costs and depreciation and earn a reasonable return. in december of 2017, the ferc announced it will review its 1999 policy statement on certification of new interstate natural gas pipeline facilities that is used in the determination of whether to grant certificates for new pipeline projects. boardwalk pipeline is unable to predict what, if any, changes may be proposed that will affect its natural gas pipeline business or when such proposals, if any, might become effective. boardwalk pipeline does not expect that any change in this policy would affect it in a materially different manner than any other natural gas pipeline company operating in the u.s. legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more prescriptive compliance activities, substantial changes to existing integrity management programs or withdrawal of regulatory waivers could subject boardwalk pipeline to increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. boardwalk pipeline interstate pipelines are subject to regulation by phmsa, which is part of dot. phmsa regulates the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of existing interstate natural gas and ngls pipeline facilities. phmsa regulation currently requires pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including frequent inspections, correction of certain identified anomalies and other measures to promote pipeline safety in hcas, such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. states have jurisdiction over certain of boardwalk pipeline intrastate pipelines and have adopted regulations similar to existing phmsa regulations. state regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law that affect boardwalk pipeline intrastate operations. compliance with these rules over time generally has resulted in an overall increase in maintenance costs. the imposition of new or more stringent pipeline safety rules applicable to natural gas or ngl pipelines, or any issuance or reinterpretation of guidance from phmsa or any state agencies with respect thereto could cause boardwalk pipeline to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in boardwalk pipeline incurring increased capital and operating costs, experience operational delays, and result in potential adverse impacts to its operations or ability to reliably serve its customers. requirements that are imposed under the 2011 act or the more recent 2016 act may also increase boardwalk pipeline capital and operating costs or impact the operation of its pipelines. boardwalk pipeline has entered into certain firm transportation contracts with shippers on certain of its expansion projects that utilize the design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, based upon the authority boardwalk pipeline received from phmsa to operate those pipelines under special permits at higher than normal operating pressures of 31 table of contents up to 0.80 of the pipeline smys. phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, it could affect boardwalk pipeline ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipeline assets and it could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to default or bankruptcy by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the default by a customer of its contractual obligations or the customer filing bankruptcy. boardwalk pipeline has credit risk with both its existing customers and those supporting its growth projects. natural gas producers comprise a significant portion of boardwalk pipeline revenues and support several of its growth projects, including those recently placed into service. in 2017, approximately 46% of boardwalk pipeline revenues were generated from contracts with natural gas producers. for existing customers on its interstate pipelines, ferc gas tariffs limit the amount of credit support boardwalk pipeline can obtain. over the past several years, the prices of oil and natural gas have been unstable. if oil and natural gas prices continue to remain unstable for a sustained period of time, boardwalk pipeline producer customers will be adversely affected, which could lead some customers to default on their obligations to boardwalk pipeline or file for bankruptcy. credit risk also exists in relation to boardwalk pipeline growth projects, both because foundation customers make long term firm capacity commitments to boardwalk pipeline for such projects and certain of those foundation customers agree to provide credit support as construction for such projects progresses. if a customer fails to post the required credit support during the growth project process, overall returns on the project may be reduced to the extent an adjustment to the scope of the project results or boardwalk pipeline is unable to replace the defaulting customer. boardwalk pipeline credit exposure also includes receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by boardwalk pipeline to them under certain nns and parking and lending ( pal ) services. boardwalk pipeline relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of its revenues. for 2017, while no customer comprised 10% or more of its operating revenues, the top ten customers comprised approximately 41% of revenues. if any of boardwalk pipeline significant customers have credit or financial problems which result in bankruptcy, a delay or failure to pay for services provided by boardwalk pipeline to post the required credit support for construction associated with its growth projects or existing contracts or to repay the gas they owe boardwalk pipeline, it could have a material adverse effect on its business. changes in energy prices, including natural gas, oil and ngls, impact the supply of and demand for those commodities, which impact boardwalk pipeline business. boardwalk pipeline customers, especially producers, are directly impacted by changes in commodity prices. the prices of natural gas, oil and ngls fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors. the declines in the levels of natural gas, oil and ngls prices experienced in recent history have adversely affected the businesses of boardwalk pipeline producer customers and reduced the demand for boardwalk pipeline services and could result in defaults or the non-renewal of boardwalk pipeline contracted capacity when existing contracts expire. future increases in the price of natural gas and ngls could make alternative energy and feedstock sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas and ngls. a reduced level of demand for natural gas and ngls could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems and reduce the demand of its services. a significant portion of boardwalk pipeline debt will mature over the next five years and will need to be paid or refinanced and changes to the debt and equity markets could adversely affect its business. a significant portion of boardwalk pipeline debt is set to mature in the next five years, including its revolving credit facility. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to refinance its maturing debt on commercially reasonable terms, 32 table of contents or at all, depending on numerous factors, including its financial condition and prospects at the time and the then current state of the banking and capital markets in the u.s. limited access to the debt and equity markets could adversely affect boardwalk pipeline business. boardwalk pipeline current strategy is to fund its announced growth projects through currently available financing options, including utilizing cash generated from operations, borrowings under its revolving credit facility, accessing proceeds from its subordinated loan agreement with a subsidiary of the company and accessing the capital markets. changes in the debt and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. instability in the financial markets may increase boardwalk pipeline cost of capital while reducing the availability of funds. this may affect its ability to raise capital and reduce the amount of cash available to fund its operations or growth projects. if the debt and equity markets were not available, it is not certain if other adequate financing options would be available to boardwalk pipeline on terms and conditions that it would find acceptable. any disruption in the capital markets could require boardwalk pipeline to take additional measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until it can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs. such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing its operations to lower expenses and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. boardwalk pipeline may be unable to execute its growth strategy or take advantage of certain business opportunities. boardwalk pipeline does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to its operations. boardwalk pipeline does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and boardwalk pipeline is subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. boardwalk pipeline obtains the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. boardwalk pipeline cannot guarantee that it will always be able to renew, when necessary, existing rights-of-way or obtain new rights-of-way without experiencing significant costs. any loss of these rights with respect to boardwalk pipeline real property, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in executing its strategy to grow and diversify its business. boardwalk pipeline relies primarily on the revenues generated from its natural gas long-haul transportation and storage services. negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on boardwalk pipeline financial condition and results of operations than if it maintained more diverse assets. boardwalk pipeline is pursuing a strategy of growing and diversifying its business through acquisition and development of assets in complementary areas of the midstream energy sector, such as liquids transportation and storage assets. boardwalk pipeline ability to grow, diversify and increase distributable cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to expand its existing business lines and to close and execute on accretive acquisitions. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. any such transactions involve potential risks that may include, among other things: the diversion of management and employees attention from other business concerns; inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies; a decrease in boardwalk pipeline liquidity as a result of using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project; a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if it incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; 33 table of contents an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals. additionally, acquisitions also contain the following risks: an inability to integrate successfully the businesses boardwalk pipeline acquires; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which it is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies may exclude from coverage; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. boardwalk pipeline ability to replace expiring gas storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all are subject to market conditions. boardwalk pipeline owns and operates substantial natural gas storage facilities. the market for the storage and pal services that it offers is impacted by the factors and market conditions discussed above for boardwalk pipeline transportation services, and is also impacted by natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. when market conditions cause a narrowing of time period price spreads and a decline in the price volatility of natural gas, these factors adversely impact the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its storage and pal services. boardwalk pipeline operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which it may not be adequately insured. there are a variety of operating risks inherent in transporting and storing natural gas, ethylene and ngls, such as leaks and other forms of releases, explosions, fires, cyber-attacks and mechanical problems, some of which could have catastrophic consequences. additionally, the nature and location of boardwalk pipeline business may make it susceptible to catastrophic losses from hurricanes or other named storms, particularly with regard to its assets in the gulf coast region, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, and severe winter weather. any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of boardwalk pipeline operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations and substantial financial losses. the location of pipelines in hcas, which includes populated areas, residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from some of these risks. boardwalk pipeline currently possesses property, business interruption, cyber threat and general liability insurance, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage boardwalk pipeline does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. climate change legislation and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases ( ghgs ) could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for boardwalk pipeline pipeline and storage services. climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. as a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of greenhouse gases. while no comprehensive climate change legislation 34 table of contents has been implemented at the federal level, the environmental protection agency ( epa ) and states or groupings of states have pursued legal initiatives in recent years that seek to reduce ghg emissions through efforts that include consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes and ghg reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit ghg emissions from certain sources such as, for example, limitations on emissions of methane through equipment control and leak detection and repair requirements. in particular, the epa has adopted rules that, among other things, establish certain permit reviews for ghg emissions from certain large stationary sources, which reviews could require securing permits at covered facilities emitting ghgs and meeting defined technological standards for those ghg emissions. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the u.s., including, among others, onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities as well as gathering, compression and boosting facilities and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a ghg, from oil and natural gas operations. the adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. risks related to us and our subsidiary, loews hotels holding corporation loews hotels &amp; co business may be adversely affected by various operating risks common to the lodging industry, including competition, excess supply and dependence on business travel and tourism. loews hotels &amp; co owns and operates hotels which have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets. a typical office property, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provide a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. hotels, on the other hand, generate revenue from guests that typically stay at the hotel for only a few nights, which causes the room rate and occupancy levels at each hotel to change every day, and results in earnings that can be highly volatile. in addition, loews hotels &amp; co properties are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond loews hotels &amp; co control, including: changes in general economic conditions, including the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy and financial markets; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases; natural or man-made disasters; any material reduction or prolonged interruption of public utilities and services; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending and cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business due to adverse economic conditions or otherwise; decreased need for business-related travel due to innovations in business-related technology; competition from other hotels and alternative accommodations, such as airbnb, in the markets in which loews hotels &amp; co operates; requirements for periodic capital reinvestment to maintain and upgrade hotels; 35 table of contents increases in operating costs, including labor (including minimum wage increases), workers compensation, benefits, insurance, food, energy and unanticipated costs resulting from force majeure events, due to inflation, new or different federal, state or local governmental regulations and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations; organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for loews hotels &amp; co properties generally as a result of certain labor tactics; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers, including with respect to the underlying attractions supporting loews hotels &amp; co existing and under development immersive destination properties, such as the universal theme park for its orlando, florida properties, the stadiums in arlington, texas and st. louis, missouri for its live! by loews hotels and the convention center for its kansas city hotel, geographic concentration of its operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; and relationships with third-party property owners, developers, landlords and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners and/or partners may terminate management or joint venture agreements. these factors, and the reputational repercussions of these factors, could adversely affect, and from time to time have adversely affected, individual hotels and hotels in particular regions. loews hotels &amp; co is exposed to the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate, which could increase its costs, reduce its profits, limit its ability to respond to market conditions or restrict its growth strategy. loews hotels &amp; co proportion of owned and leased properties, compared to the number of properties that it manages for third-party owners, is larger than that of some of its competitors. real estate ownership and leasing is subject to risks not applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: real estate, insurance, zoning, tax, environmental and eminent domain laws; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and the availability of replacement financing; risks associated with the possibility that cost increases will outpace revenue increases and that, in the event of an economic slowdown, a high proportion of fixed costs will make it difficult to reduce costs to the extent required to offset declining revenues; risks associated with real estate leases, including the possibility of rent increases and the inability to renew or extend upon favorable terms; fluctuations in real estate values and potential impairments in the value of loews hotels &amp; co assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which loews hotels &amp; co properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the consumer base served. loews hotels &amp; co generally expects revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each 36 table of contents of the three subsequent quarters. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of its industry may contribute to fluctuation in loews hotels &amp; co results of operations and financial condition. loews hotels &amp; co operates in a highly competitive industry, both for customers and for acquisitions and developments of new properties. the lodging industry is highly competitive. loews hotels &amp; co properties compete with other hotels and alternative accommodations based on a number of factors, including room rates, quality of accommodations, service levels and amenities, location, brand affiliation, reputation and reservation systems. new hotels may be constructed and these additions to supply create new competitors, in some cases without corresponding increases in demand for hotel rooms. some of its competitors also have greater financial and marketing resources than loews hotels &amp; co. in addition, travelers can book stays on websites that facilitate the short-term rental of homes and apartments from owners, thereby providing an alternative to hotel rooms. loews hotels &amp; co also competes for hotel acquisitions and development projects with entities that have similar investment objectives as it does. this competition could limit the number of suitable investment opportunities. it may also increase the bargaining power of loews hotels &amp; co counterparties, making it more difficult for loews hotels &amp; co to acquire or develop new properties on attractive terms or on the terms contemplated in its business plan. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of loews hotels &amp; co brands could have an adverse effect on its reputation and business. loews hotels &amp; co brands and its reputation are among its most important assets. its ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of its brands and their associated reputation. if its brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, or its brands or reputation are otherwise harmed, loews hotels &amp; co may be unable to attract guests to its properties, and may further be unable to attract or retain joint venture partners or hotel owners. loews hotels &amp; co efforts to develop new properties and renovate existing properties could be delayed or become more expensive. loews hotels &amp; co from time to time renovates its properties and is currently expanding its portfolio through the ground-up construction of a number of new developments, including new properties in orlando, florida, arlington, texas, kansas city, missouri and st. louis, missouri and in the future may similarly develop additional new properties. often these projects are undertaken with joint venture partners. these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials or unforeseeable site conditions) that may increase project costs or cause new development projects to not be completed by lender imposed required completion dates; obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes or floods; and design defects that could increase costs. additionally, developing new properties typically involves lengthy development periods during which significant amounts of capital must be funded before the properties begin to operate and generate revenue. if the cost of funding new development exceeds budgeted amounts, and/or the time period for development is longer than initially 37 table of contents anticipated, loews hotels &amp; co profits could be reduced. further, due to the lengthy development cycle, intervening adverse economic conditions in general and as they apply to loews hotels &amp; co and its development partners may alter or impede the development plans, thereby resulting in incremental costs or potential impairment charges. in addition, using multiple sources of capital to develop new properties reduces or eliminates the ability of loews hotels &amp; co to cease commenced projects if the overall economic environment conditions change. moreover, during the early stages of operations, charges related to interest expense and depreciation may substantially detract from, or even outweigh, the profitability of certain new property investments. loews hotels &amp; co properties are geographically concentrated, which exposes its business to the effects of regional events and occurrences. loews hotels &amp; co has a concentration of hotels in florida. specifically, as of december 31, 2017, six hotels, representing approximately 49% of rooms in its system, were located in florida. the concentration of hotels in one region or a limited number of markets may expose loews hotels &amp; co to risks of adverse economic and other developments that are greater than if its portfolio were more geographically diverse. these developments include regional economic downturns, a decline in the popularity of or access to area tourist attractions, such as theme parks, significant increases in the number of loews hotels &amp; co competitors hotels in these markets and potentially higher local property, sales and income taxes in the geographic markets in which it is concentrated. in addition, loews hotels &amp; co properties in florida are subject to the effects of adverse acts of nature, such as hurricanes, strong winds and flooding, which have in the past caused damage to its hotels in florida, which may in the future be intensified as a result of climate change, as well as outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases. the growth and use of alternative reservation channels adversely affects loews hotels &amp; co business. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for guests at loews hotels &amp; co properties is booked through internet travel and other intermediaries. in most cases, loews hotels &amp; co has agreements with such intermediaries and pays them commissions and/or fees for sales of its rooms through their systems. if such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions or fees, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from loews hotels &amp; co. there can be no assurance that loews hotels &amp; co will be able to negotiate such agreements in the future with terms as favorable as those that exist today. moreover, these intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites and other outlets. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to loews hotels &amp; co brands. under certain circumstances, loews hotels &amp; co insurance coverage may not cover all possible losses, and it may not be able to renew its insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. although loews hotels &amp; co maintains various property, casualty and other insurance policies, proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage loews hotels &amp; co does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. labor shortages could restrict loews hotels &amp; co ability to operate its properties or grow its business or result in increased labor costs that could reduce its profits. loews hotels &amp; co properties are staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week by thousands of employees. if it is unable to attract, retain, train and engage skilled employees, its ability to manage and staff its properties adequately could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. staffing shortages could also hinder its ability to grow and expand its business. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at its properties, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase its labor costs. 38 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiary, consolidated container company llc consolidated container substantial indebtedness could affect its ability to meet its obligations and may otherwise restrict its activities. consolidated container has a significant amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. its inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on its business. consolidated container substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit its ability to borrow money for its working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit its ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing its business through acquisitions. in addition, the credit agreements governing its current indebtedness contain, and any future debt instruments would likely contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, which impose significant operating and financial restrictions on it. as a result of these covenants, consolidated container could be limited in the manner in which it conducts its business and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. furthermore, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on consolidated container. fluctuations in raw material prices and raw material availability may affect consolidated container results. to produce its products, consolidated container uses large quantities of plastic resins and recycled plastic materials. it faces the risk that its access to these raw materials may be interrupted or that it may not be able to purchase these raw materials at prices that are acceptable to it. in general, consolidated container does not have long-term supply contracts with its suppliers, and its purchases of raw materials are subject to market price volatility. although consolidated container generally is able to pass changes in the prices of raw materials through to its customers over a period of time, it may not always be able to do so or there may be a lag between when its costs increase and when it passes those costs through to its customers. it may not be able to pass through all future raw material price increases in a timely manner or at all due to competitive pressures. in addition, a sustained increase in resin and recycled plastic prices, relative to alternative packaging materials, would make plastic containers less economical for its customers and could result in a slower pace of conversions to, or reductions in the use of, plastic containers. any limitation on its ability to procure its primary raw materials or to pass through price increases in such materials on a timely basis could negatively affect consolidated container. consolidated container customers may increase their self-manufacturing. increased self-manufacturing by consolidated container customers may have a material adverse impact on its sales volume and financial results. consolidated container believes that its customers may engage in self-manufacturing over time at locations where transportation costs are high, and where low complexity and available space to install blow molding equipment exists. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face additional risks and uncertainties described below. 39 table of contents acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in the united states or abroad, the continuation or escalation of existing armed hostilities or the outbreak of additional hostilities, including military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on us and the assets and businesses of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from an act of terrorism. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism could also result in increased political, economic and financial market instability, a decline in energy consumption and volatility in the price of oil and gas, which could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services and boardwalk pipeline transportation and storage services. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries operate could adversely impact us. changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties applicable to us or our subsidiaries or changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof could materially and adversely impact our and our subsidiaries tax liability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including the amount of cash our subsidiaries have available to distribute to their shareholders, including us. in particular, potential changes to tax laws relating to tax credits, the corporate tax rate or the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (and thus the rate at which cna discounts its long term care reserves), foreign earnings and publicly traded partnerships could have such material adverse effects. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state, local, foreign and international environmental laws, including those relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal, removal or clean up of hazardous wastes and other activities relating to the protection of the environment. many of such laws have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. boardwalk pipeline is also subject to environmental laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release and requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. further, existing environmental laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof may be amended and new laws may be adopted in the future. failures or interruptions in or breaches to our or our subsidiaries computer systems could materially and adversely affect our or our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries are dependent upon information technologies, computer systems and networks, including those maintained by us and our subsidiaries and those maintained and provided to us and our subsidiaries by third parties (for example, software-as-a-service and cloud solutions), to conduct operations and are reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our and their businesses. we and our subsidiaries are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our and their businesses. any failure of our or our subsidiaries computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. computer, telecommunications and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, fires, utility outages, theft, design defects, human error or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. in addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called cyber attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. in particular, the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate energy assets may be specific targets of cyber attacks, which can have catastrophic consequences and there have also been reports that hotel chains, among 40 table of contents other consumer-facing businesses, have been subject to various cyber attacks targeting payment card and other sensitive consumer information. breaches of our and our subsidiaries computer security infrastructure can result from actions by our employees, vendors, third party administrators or by unknown third parties, and may disrupt our or their operations, cause damage to our or their assets and surrounding areas and impact our or their data framework or cause a failure to protect personal information of customers or employees. the foregoing risks relating to disruption of service, interruption of operations and data loss could impact our and our subsidiaries ability to timely perform critical business functions, resulting in disruption or deterioration in our and our subsidiaries operations and business and expose us and our subsidiaries to monetary and reputational damages. in addition, potential exposures include substantially increased compliance costs and required computer system upgrades and security related investments. the breach of confidential information also could give rise to legal liability and regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. some of our subsidiaries customer bases are concentrated. some of our subsidiaries customer bases are concentrated. for instance, during 2017, two of diamond offshore customers in the gulf of mexico and diamond offshore three largest customers accounted for 41% and an aggregate of 60% of its annual total consolidated revenues. in addition, the number of customers that it has performed services for declined from 35 in 2014 to 14 in 2017. for boardwalk pipeline, while no customer comprised more than 10% or more of its operating revenues, its top ten customers comprised approximately 41% of its revenues during 2017. consolidated container also depends on several large customers. the loss of or other problem with a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on these subsidiaries and our financial results. loss of key vendor relationships or issues relating to the transitioning of vendor relationships could result in a materially adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries rely on products, equipment and services provided by many third party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers in the united states and abroad, which exposes us and them to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. these include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services (including, in the case of cna, claims administrators performing significant claims administration and adjudication functions). certain products, equipment and services may be available from a limited number of sources. if one or more key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products, equipment or services at the requisite level for any reason, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may experience a material adverse effect on our or their business, operations and reputation. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, pipeline and storage assets at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. in particular, diamond offshore is currently experiencing declining demand for certain offshore drilling rigs as a result of excess rig supply in the industry and depressed market conditions. as a result, diamond offshore may incur additional asset impairments, rig retirements and/or rigs being scrapped. we also test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. asset impairment evaluations by us and our subsidiaries with respect to both long-lived assets and goodwill are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. 41 table of contents we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. we and our subsidiaries face competition for senior executives and qualified specialized talent. we and our subsidiaries depend on the services of our key personnel, who possess skills critical to the operation of our and their businesses. our and our subsidiaries executive management teams are highly experienced and possess extensive skills in their relevant industries. the ability to retain senior executives and to attract and retain highly skilled professionals and personnel with specialized industry and technical experience is important to our and our subsidiaries success and future growth. competition for this talent can be intense, and we and our subsidiaries may not be successful in our efforts. the unexpected loss of the services of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us and our subsidiaries and could hinder our and their ability to effectively compete in the various industries in which we and they operate. from time to time we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation, for which we and they may be unable to accurately assess the level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a significant adverse effect on our or their consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings and disputes. these matters may include, among others, contract disputes, claims disputes, reinsurance disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, intellectual property disputes, disputes related to employment and tax matters and other litigation incidental to our or their businesses. although our current assessment is that, other than as disclosed in this report, there is no pending litigation that could have a significant adverse impact, it is difficult to predict the outcome or effect of any litigation matters and if our assessment proves to be in error, then the outcome of litigation could have a significant impact on our financial statements. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. while we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims, an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on us. 42 table of contents short term investments the carrying value of the components of cna short term investments are presented in the following table: december 31 2017 2016 (in millions) short term investments: commercial paper $ 905 $ 733 u.s. treasury securities 355 433 money market funds 44 44 other 132 197 total short term investments $ 1,436 $ 1,407 insurance reserves the level of reserves cna maintains represents its best estimate, as of a particular point in time, of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on cna assessment of facts and circumstances known at that time. reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates that cna derives, generally utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques, from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, both internal and external, many of which are highly uncertain. as noted below, cna reviews its reserves for each segment of its business periodically, and any such review could result in the need to increase reserves in amounts which could be material and could adversely affect our results of operations and equity and cna business and insurer financial strength and corporate debt ratings. further information on reserves is provided in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2017 and 2016 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. 82 table of contents the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $630 million and $544 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $694 million and $605 million at december 31, 2017 and 2016. consolidated container has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $500 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor on a portion of its variable rate debt. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate on the hedged portion of the term loan at approximately 2.1% plus an applicable margin. at december 31, 2017, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt, net of the effects of the swaps, would increase interest expense by approximately $5 million on an annual basis. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2017 and 2016, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2017 and 2016, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous decrease of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2017 and 2016. we have exposure to price risk as a result of consolidated container purchases of certain raw materials, such as high-density polyethylene, polycarbonate, polypropylene and polyethylene terephthalate resins in connection with the production of its products. the purchase prices of these raw materials are determined based on prevailing market conditions. while consolidated container operations are affected by fluctuations in resin prices, its net income over time is generally unaffected by these changes because industry practice and many consolidated container contractual arrangements permit or require consolidated container to pass through these cost changes to its customers. in the future, however, consolidated container may not always be able to pass through these changes in raw material costs in a timely manner or at all due to competitive pressures. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 83 table of contents the following tables present our market risk by category (equity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices) on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2017 2016 2017 2016 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities long $ 517 $ 425 $ (129) $ (106) short (5 ) (36) 1 9 options purchased 12 14 16 8 written (7 ) (8) (15) (4) other derivatives 1 1 67 56 interest rate (2): fixed maturities long 649 601 (1) (1) short term investments 2,745 3,064 other invested assets 60 55 (1) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points. 84 table of contents other than trading portfolio: category of risk exposure: fair value asset (liability) market risk december 31 2017 2016 2017 2016 (in millions) equity prices (1): equity securities: general accounts (a) $ 695 $ 110 $ (174) $ (28) limited partnership investments 3,278 3,220 (464) (449) interest rate (2): fixed maturities (a) 41,484 40,893 (2,559) (2,571) short term investments (a) 1,901 1,701 (1) (1) other invested assets, primarily mortgage loans 844 594 (40) (30) interest rate swaps (b) 4 26 other derivatives (3 ) 3 17 13 foreign exchange (3): other invested assets 44 36 (7) (5) note: the calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points and (3) a decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar of 20%. (a) certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. an assumed 20% decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(453) and $(399) at december 31, 2017 and 2016. (b) the market risk at december 31, 2017 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 85 table of contentsrisk factors. our business and the businesses of our subsidiaries face many risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, financial condition or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. we have described below the most significant risks facing us and our subsidiaries. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be as significant that may also impact our business or the businesses of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the information we make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, also file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries with the sec and the information they make available to the public before investing in any of their securities. risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna financial corporation if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves which would result in a charge to cna earnings. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex management estimates developed utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques as of a given reporting date. the reserve estimation process involves a high degree of judgment and variability and is subject to a number of factors which are highly uncertain. these variables can be affected by both changes in internal processes and external events. key variables include frequency of claims, claim severity, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claim handling policies and procedures, case reserving approach, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of injury, illness, sickness and diseases contracted. there is generally a higher degree of variability in estimating required reserves for long-tail coverages, such as general liability and workers compensation, as they require a relatively longer period of time for claims to be reported and settled. the impact of changes in inflation and medical costs are also more pronounced for long-tail coverages due to the longer settlement period. certain risks and uncertainties associated with cna insurance reserves are outlined in the insurance reserves and critical accounting estimates sections of md&amp;a in item 7. cna is subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna reserves. the effects of unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the judgments necessary to establish reserve levels, cna continually reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops from the actual reporting and settlement of claims and as the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. if cna recorded reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against its earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. 16 cna actual experience could vary from the key assumptions used to determine active life reserves for long term care policies. cna active life reserves for long term care policies are based on cna best estimate assumptions as of december 31, 2015 due to a reserve unlocking at that date. key assumptions include morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force), discount rate and future premium rate increases. these assumptions, which are critical bases for its reserve estimates are inherently uncertain. if actual experience varies from these assumptions or the future outlook for these assumptions changes, cna may be required to increase its reserves. see the long term care policyholder reserves portion of the insurance reserves section of md&amp;a in item 7 for more information. estimating future experience for long term care policies is highly uncertain because the required projection period is very long and there is limited claim history. morbidity and persistency experience, inclusive of mortality, can be volatile and may be negatively affected by many factors including, but not limited to, policyholder behavior, judicial decisions regarding policy terms, socioeconomic factors, cost of care inflation, changes in health trends and advances in medical care. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in cna reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting cna obligations under long term care policies, which may require changes to its reserves. this risk is more significant for cna long term care products because the long potential duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. further, changes to the corporate tax code may also affect the rate at which cna discounts its reserves. in addition, cna may not receive regulatory approval for the level of premium rate increases it requests. any adverse deviation between the level of future premium rate increases approved and the level included in cna reserving assumptions may require an increase to its reserves. if cna estimated reserves are insufficient for any reason, including changes in assumptions, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. catastrophe and systemic losses are unpredictable and could result in material losses. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, floods, riots, strikes, civil commotion, cyber attacks, pandemics and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. the extent of cna losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance coverage, reinsurance reinstatement premiums and state residual market assessments, if any. it can take a long time for the ultimate cost of any catastrophe losses to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. as a result of the items discussed above, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. additionally, catastrophic events could cause cna to exhaust its available reinsurance limits and could adversely affect the cost and availability of reinsurance. claim frequency and severity for some lines of business can be correlated to external factors such as economic activity, financial market volatility, increasing health care costs or changes in the legal or regulatory environment. claim frequency and severity can also be correlated to insureds use of common business practices, equipment, vendors or software. this can result in multiple insured losses emanating out of the same underlying cause. in these instances, cna may be subject to increased claim frequency and severity across multiple policies or lines of business 17 concurrently. while cna does not define such systemic losses as catastrophes for financial reporting purposes, they are similar to catastrophes in terms of the uncertainty and potential impact on its results. cna has exposure related to a&amp;ep claims, which could result in material losses. cna property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer or lpt ). the cumulative amount ceded under the loss portfolio transfer as of december 31, 2018 is $3.1 billion. if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, net losses incurred on a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against earnings. these charges could be substantial. additionally, if the a&amp;ep claims exceed the limit of the loss portfolio transfer, cna will need to assess whether to purchase additional limit or to reassume claim handling responsibility for a&amp;ep claims from an affiliate of nico. any additional reinsurance premium or future claim handling costs would also reduce cna earnings. cna uses analytical models to assist its decision making in key areas such as pricing, reserving and capital modeling and may be adversely affected if actual results differ materially from the model outputs and related analyses. cna uses various modeling techniques and data analytics (e.g., scenarios, predictive, stochastic and/or forecasting) to analyze and estimate exposures, loss trends and other risks associated with its assets and liabilities. this includes both proprietary and third party modeled outputs and related analyses to assist cna in decision-making related to underwriting, pricing, capital allocation, reserving, investing, reinsurance and catastrophe risk, among other things. cna incorporates numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of policyholder behavior, loss frequency and severity, interest rates, equity markets, inflation, capital requirements, and currency exchange rates, among others. the modeled outputs and related analyses from both proprietary models and third parties are subject to various assumptions, uncertainties, model design errors and the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis, including those arising from the use of historical internal and industry data and assumptions. in addition, the effectiveness of any model can be degraded by operational risks including, but not limited to, the improper use of the model, including input errors, data errors and human error. as a result, actual results may differ materially from cna modeled results. the profitability and financial condition of cna substantially depends on the extent to which its actual experience is consistent with the assumptions cna uses in its models and ultimate model outputs. if, based upon these models or other factors, cna misprices its products or fails to appropriately estimate the risks it is exposed to, its business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity may be materially adversely affected. cna faces intense competition in its industry. all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services to remain competitive. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities, some of which may be larger or have greater financial or other resources than cna does, for both distributors and customers. this includes agents, brokers and managing general underwriters who may increasingly compete with cna to the extent that they continue to have direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk. insurers compete on the basis of many factors, including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. the competitor landscape has evolved substantially in recent years, with significant consolidation and new market entrants, resulting in increased pressures on cna ability to 18 remain competitive, particularly in obtaining pricing that is both attractive to cna customer base and risk appropriate to cna. the property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, resulting in less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. during periods in which price competition is high, cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. as a result, cna premium levels and expense ratio could be materially adversely impacted. cna markets its insurance products worldwide primarily through independent insurance agents, insurance brokers and managing general underwriters who also promote and distribute the products of cna competitors. any change in cna relationships with its distribution network agents, brokers or managing general underwriters including as a result of consolidation and their increased promotion and distribution of cna competitors products, could adversely affect cna ability to sell its products. as a result, cna business volume and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. cna may be adversely affected by technological changes or disruptions in the insurance marketplace. technological changes in the way insurance transactions are completed in the marketplace, and cna ability to react effectively to such change, may present significant competitive risks. for example, more insurers are utilizing big data analytics to make underwriting and other decisions that impact product design and pricing. if such utilization is more effective than how cna uses similar data and information, cna will be at a competitive disadvantage. there can be no assurance that cna will continue to compete effectively with its industry peers due to technological changes; accordingly this may have a material adverse effect on cna business and results of operations. in addition, agents and brokers, technology companies or other third parties may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. for example, they may create a digitally enabled distribution channel that may adversely impact cna competitive position. cna efforts or the efforts of agents and brokers with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize greater levels of data and technology, could adversely impact cna business relationships with independent agents and brokers who currently market its products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. cna may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost or on terms and conditions it deems acceptable, which could result in increased exposure to risk or a decrease in cna underwriting commitments. a primary reason cna purchases reinsurance is to manage its exposure to risk. under cna ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost or on terms and conditions it deems acceptable, cna may have increased exposure to risk. alternatively, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers, which could result in higher net incurred losses. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefit reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna reinsurance carriers could experience credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of cna contractual relationship, which would indicate an increase in the likelihood that cna would not be able to recover amounts due. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if the amounts collected from reinsurers, including any collateral, are less than the amounts recorded by cna, its net incurred losses will be higher. 19 cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies and/or who purchase retrospectively rated policies, which could result in higher net incurred losses. a portion of cna business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and is reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose cna to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium, which may be significant. as a result, cna is exposed to policyholder credit risk. if the amounts collected from policyholders, including any collateral, are less than the amounts recorded by cna, cna net incurred losses will be higher. cna may incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from changes in the financial markets. cna investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit spread, issuer default, equity prices and foreign currency, which are unpredictable. financial markets are highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, monetary policies, tax policies, domestic and international geopolitical issues and many other factors. changes in financial markets including fluctuations in interest rates, credit, equity prices and foreign currency prices, and many other factors beyond cna control can adversely affect the value of its investments, the realization of investment income and the rate at which it discounts certain liabilities. cna has significant holdings in fixed income investments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. a decline in interest rates may reduce the returns earned on new fixed income investments, thereby reducing cna net investment income, while an increase in interest rates may reduce the value of its existing fixed income investments. the value of cna fixed income investments is also subject to risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of issuers of the investments cna holds or in the underlying collateral of the security. any such impairments which cna deems to be other-than-temporary would result in a charge to earnings. in addition, cna invests a portion of its assets in limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed income investments. limited partnership investments generally provide a lower level of liquidity than fixed maturity or equity investments, which may also limit cna ability to withdraw assets. further, cna holds a portfolio of commercial mortgage loans. cna is subject to risk related to the recoverability of loan balances, which is influenced by declines in the estimated cash flows from underlying property leases, fair value of collateral and creditworthiness of tenants of the underlying properties, where lease payments directly service the loan. collecting amounts from borrowers that are less than the amounts recorded would result in a charge to earnings. as a result of these factors, cna may not earn an adequate return on its investments, may be required to write down the value of its investments and may incur losses on the disposition of its investments. inability to detect and prevent significant employee or third party service provider misconduct, inadvertent errors and omissions, or exposure relating to functions performed on cna behalf could result in a material adverse effect on cna operations. cna may incur losses which arise from employees or third party service providers engaging in intentional misconduct, fraud, errors and omissions, failure to comply with internal guidelines, including with respect to underwriting authority, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. cna controls may not be able to detect all possible circumstances of employee and third party service provider non-compliant activity and the internal structures in place to prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. any losses relating to such non-compliant activity could adversely affect cna results of operations. 20 portions of cna insurance business is underwritten and serviced by third parties. with respect to underwriting, cna contractual arrangements with third parties will typically grant them limited rights to write new and renewal policies, subject to contractual restrictions and obligations and requiring them to underwrite within the terms of cna licenses. should these third parties issue policies that exceed these contractual restrictions, cna could be deemed liable for such policies and subject to regulatory fines and penalties for any breach of licensing requirements. it is possible that in such circumstance cna might not be fully indemnified for such third parties contractual breaches. additionally, cna relies on certain third-party claims administrators, including the administrators of its long term care claims, to perform significant claim administration and claim adjudication functions. any failure by such administrator to properly perform service functions may result in losses as a result of over-payment of claims, legal claims against cna and adverse regulatory enforcement exposure. cna has also licensed certain systems from third parties. cna cannot be certain that it will have access to these systems or that its information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. these risks could adversely impact cna reputation or client relationships or have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. in the u.s., these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of cna legal entity statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as lloyd s, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable jurisdiction regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, cna may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business in the applicable jurisdictions and specialized markets. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimated insurance reserves, the occurrence of a catastrophic event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, which severely deteriorates its capital position, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. globally, insurance regulators are working cooperatively to develop a common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups that includes an international capital standard ( ics ) that may need to be implemented on a group basis. finalization and adoption of this framework, including the ics, could increase cna prescribed capital requirement, the level at which regulatory scrutiny intensifies, as well as significantly increase its cost of regulatory compliance. cna insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its corporate obligations, are limited by insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries domiciliary insurance regulator are generally limited to amounts determined by formulas that vary by jurisdiction. if cna is restricted from paying or receiving intercompany dividends, by regulatory rule or otherwise, cna may not be able to fund its corporate obligations and debt service requirements or pay stockholder dividends from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna public debt, are rated by rating agencies, including, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and s&amp;p global ratings ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency opinions of an insurance company or insurance holding company financial strength, capital 21 adequacy, enterprise risk management practices, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. the rating agencies may take action to lower cna ratings in the future as a result of any significant financial loss or possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. the severity of the impact on cna business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a significant lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse effect on cna ratings, independent of any change in cna circumstances. cna is subject to extensive regulations that restrict its ability to do business and generate revenues. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna policyholders and third-party claimants rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which cna conducts its business. any changes in regulation could impose significant burdens on cna. in addition, the lloyd marketplace sets rules under which its members, including cna hardy syndicate, operate. these rules and regulations relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency (including risk-based capital measures), government-supported backstops for certain catastrophic events (including terrorism), investment restrictions, accounting and reporting methodology, establishment of reserves and potential assessments of funds to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. state jurisdictions ensure compliance with such regulations through market conduct exams, which may result in losses to the extent non-compliance is ascertained, either as a result of failure to document transactions properly or failure to comply with internal guidelines, or otherwise. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible or restrict cna from withdrawing from unprofitable lines of business or unprofitable market areas. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. the united kingdom expected exit from the european union is expected to increase the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of cna european business. in 2016, the u.k. approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit. brexit is scheduled to be completed in early 2019. as treaties between the u.k. and the e.u. have not been finalized, as of january 1, 2019, cna intends to write business in the e.u. through its recently established european subsidiary in luxembourg as its u.k. domiciled subsidiary will presumably no longer provide a platform for its operations throughout the european continent. as a result of such structural changes and modification to cna european operations, the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of its european business has increased and will likely continue to result in elevated expenses. risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore drilling, inc. the worldwide demand for diamond offshore drilling services has historically been dependent on the price of oil and, as a result of low oil prices, demand has continued to be depressed in 2018. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends in large part upon the oil and natural gas industry offshore exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in oil and gas prices. commencing in the second half of 2014, oil prices declined significantly, resulting in a sharp decline in the demand for offshore drilling services, including services that 22 diamond offshore provides, and adversely affecting diamond offshore operations and cash flows compared to years before the decline. the continuation of low oil prices would have a material adverse effect on many of diamond offshore customers and, therefore, on demand for its services and on its business. oil prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore control. although, historically, higher sustained commodity prices have generally resulted in increases in offshore drilling projects, short term or temporary increases in the price of oil and gas will not necessarily result in an increase in offshore drilling activity or an increase in the market demand for diamond offshore rigs. the timing of commitment to offshore activity in a cycle depends on project deployment times, reserve replacement needs, availability of capital and alternative options for resource development, among other things. timing can also be affected by availability, access to, and cost of equipment to perform work. diamond offshore business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which has been cyclical and is significantly affected by many factors outside of its control. demand for diamond offshore drilling services depends upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices, worldwide demand for oil and gas and a variety of political and economic factors. the level of offshore drilling activity is adversely affected when operators reduce or defer new investment in offshore projects, reduce or suspend their drilling budgets or reallocate their drilling budgets away from offshore drilling in favor of other priorities, such as shale or other land-based projects. as a result, diamond offshore business and the oil and gas industry in general are subject to cyclical fluctuations. as a result of the cyclical fluctuations in the market, there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and lower dayrates, followed by periods of higher demand, shorter rig supply and higher dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such fluctuations. periods of lower demand or excess rig supply, which have occurred in the recent past and are continuing, intensify the competition in the industry and often result in periods of lower utilization and lower dayrates. during these periods, diamond offshore rigs may not obtain contracts for future work and may be idle for long periods of time or may be able to obtain work only under contracts with lower dayrates or less favorable terms. additionally, prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also result in the recognition of further impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. diamond offshore industry is highly competitive, with oversupply and intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants. some of diamond offshore competitors may be larger companies, have larger or more technologically advanced fleets and have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. new rig construction and upgrades of existing drilling rigs, cancelation or termination of drilling contracts and established rigs coming off contract have contributed to the current oversupply of drilling rigs, intensifying price competition. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its drilling contracts will not be terminated early or that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. diamond offshore customers may terminate their drilling contracts under certain circumstances, such as the destruction or loss of a drilling rig or suspension of drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, excessive downtime for repairs, failure to meet minimum performance criteria (including customer acceptance testing) or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. 23 in addition, some of diamond offshore drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods, often by tendering contractually specified termination amounts, which may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of the contract. during depressed market conditions, such as those currently in effect, certain customers have utilized such contract clauses to seek to renegotiate or terminate a drilling contract or claim that diamond offshore has breached provisions of its drilling contracts in order to avoid their obligations to diamond offshore under circumstances where diamond offshore believes it is in compliance with the contracts. additionally, because of depressed commodity prices, restricted credit markets, economic downturns, changes in priorities or strategy or other factors beyond diamond offshore control, a customer may no longer want or need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower dayrate. for these reasons, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of diamond offshore existing drilling contracts, terminate their contracts without justification or repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. as a result of such contract renegotiations or terminations, diamond offshore contract backlog may be adversely impacted, it might not recover any compensation (or any recovery it obtains may not fully compensate it for the loss of the contract) and it may be required to idle one or more rigs for an extended period of time. diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts for its rigs. as of the date of this report, all of diamond offshore current customer contracts will expire between 2019 and 2022. some of diamond offshore drilling rigs are not currently contracted for continuous utilization between contracts and are being actively marketed for these uncontracted periods. diamond offshore ability to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts, will depend on various factors, including market conditions and the specific needs of its customers at such times. given the historically cyclical and highly competitive nature of the industry, diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace the contracts or it may be required to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts at dayrates that are below existing dayrates, or that have terms that are less favorable than existing contracts. moreover, diamond offshore may be unable to secure contracts for these rigs. failure to secure contracts for a rig may result in a decision to cold stack the rig, which puts the rig at risk for impairment and may competitively disadvantage the rig as many customers during the most recent market downturn have expressed a preference for ready or hot stacked rigs over cold-stacked rigs. diamond offshore consolidated effective income tax rate may vary substantially from one reporting period to another. diamond offshore consolidated effective income tax rate is impacted by the mix between its domestic and international pre-tax earnings or losses, as well as the mix of the international tax jurisdictions in which it operates. diamond offshore cannot provide any assurances as to what its consolidated effective income tax rate will be in the future due to, among other factors, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of its business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as potential changes in u.s. and foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, changes in the administrative practices and precedents of tax authorities or any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts diamond offshore has provided for income taxes or deferred tax assets and liabilities in its consolidated financial statements. this variability may cause its consolidated effective income tax rate to vary substantially from one reporting period to another. diamond offshore contract drilling expense includes fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and dayrates. diamond offshore contract drilling expense includes all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation, maintenance and support of its drilling equipment, which is often not affected by changes in dayrates and utilization. during periods of reduced revenue and/or activity, certain of diamond offshore fixed costs will not decline and often it may incur additional operating costs, such as fuel and catering costs, for which the customer generally reimburses diamond offshore when a rig is under contract. during times of reduced utilization, reductions in costs may not be immediate as diamond offshore may incur additional costs associated with cold stacking a rig (particularly if diamond offshore cold stacks a newer rig, such as a drillship or other dp semisubmersible rig, for which cold stacking costs are typically substantially higher than for an older non-dp rig), or it may not be able to fully reduce the cost of its support operations in a particular geographic region due to the need to support the remaining drilling rigs 24 in that region. accordingly, a decline in revenue due to lower dayrates and/or utilization may not be offset by a corresponding decrease in contract drilling expense. contracts for diamond offshore drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore operating costs could adversely affect the profitability of those contracts. diamond offshore contracts for its drilling rigs generally provide for the payment of an agreed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs it incurs on the project. over the term of a drilling contract, diamond offshore operating costs may fluctuate due to events beyond its control. in addition, equipment repair and maintenance expenses vary depending on the type of activity the rig is performing, the age and condition of the equipment and general market factors impacting relevant parts, components and services. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in its operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may not be able to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore is subject to extensive domestic and international laws and regulations that could significantly limit its business activities and revenues and increase its costs. certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the u.s. government or other governmental or international authorities. these restrictions, sanctions and embargoes may prohibit or limit diamond offshore from participating in certain business activities in those countries. diamond offshore operations are also subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties and the protection of the environment. laws and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly stringent, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject diamond offshore to civil or criminal enforcement action, for which it may not receive contractual indemnification or have insurance coverage, and could result in the issuance of injunctions restricting some or all of diamond offshore activities in the affected areas. diamond offshore may be required to make significant expenditures for additional capital equipment or inspections and recertifications to comply with existing or new governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to diamond offshore operating costs or result in a reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity. in addition, these laws and regulations require diamond offshore to perform certain regulatory inspections, which it refers to as a special survey. for most of diamond offshore rigs, these special surveys are due every five years, although the inspection interval for its north sea rigs is two and one half years. diamond offshore operations are negatively impacted during these special surveys. these special surveys are generally performed in a shipyard and require scheduled downtime, which can negatively impact operating revenue. operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard and inspection, repair and maintenance costs. repair and maintenance activities may result from the special survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. the number of rigs undergoing a special survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter to quarter. diamond offshore business may also be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between special surveys. although an intermediate survey normally does not require shipyard time, the survey may require some downtime for the rig. diamond offshore can provide no assurance as to the exact timing and/or duration of downtime associated with regulatory inspections, planned rig mobilizations and other shipyard projects. in addition, the offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, can be affected by changes in tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could limit drilling opportunities. 25 diamond offshore business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel and damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to marine hazards, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. any of the foregoing events could result in significant damage or loss to diamond offshore properties and assets or the properties and assets of others, injury or death to rig personnel or others, significant loss of revenues and significant damage claims against diamond offshore. diamond offshore drilling contracts with its customers provide for varying levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities between its customers and diamond offshore with respect to the hazards and risks inherent in, and damages or losses arising out of, its operations, and diamond offshore may not be fully protected. diamond offshore contracts are individually negotiated, and the levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities in them can vary from contract to contract depending on market conditions, particular customer requirements and other factors existing at the time a contract is negotiated. additionally, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be limited or prohibited by applicable law or such provisions may not be enforced by courts having jurisdiction, and diamond offshore could be held liable for substantial losses or damages and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities. the indemnification provisions in diamond offshore contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and the laws or courts of certain jurisdictions may enforce such provisions while other laws or courts may find them to be unenforceable. the law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to diamond offshore contracts. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore contracts with its customers, suppliers and subcontractors will fully protect it against all hazards and risks inherent in its operations. there can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will be financially able to do so or will otherwise honor their contractual obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which generally includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, certain risks and contingencies related to pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that it will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore insurance coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could result in significant loss to diamond offshore. significant portions of diamond offshore operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with united states domestic operations. diamond offshore operations outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 41%, 58% and 69% of its total consolidated revenues for 2018, 2017 and 2016 and include, or have included, operations in south america, australia and southeast asia, europe, east and west africa, the mediterranean and mexico. because diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world, it is exposed to a variety of risks inherent in international operations, including risks of war or conflicts, political and economic instability and disruption, civil disturbance, acts of piracy, terrorism or other assaults on property or personnel, corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as 26 possible restrictions against countries that the u.s. government may consider to be state sponsors of terrorism), changes in global monetary and trade policies, laws and regulations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions on currency exchange, controls over the repatriation of income or capital and other risks. diamond offshore may not have insurance coverage for these risks, or it may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for such events at reasonable rates. diamond offshore operations may become restricted, disrupted or prohibited in any country in which any of these risks occur. in 2016, the u.k. approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit . the impact of brexit and the future relationship between the u.k. and the e.u. are uncertain for companies that do business in the u.k. and the overall global economy. approximately 9% of diamond offshore total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2018 were generated in the u.k. brexit, or similar events in other jurisdictions, could depress economic activity or impact global markets, including foreign exchange and securities markets, which may have an adverse impact on diamond offshore business as a result of changes in currency exchange rates, tariffs, treaties and other regulatory matters. diamond offshore is also subject to the regulations of the u.s. treasury department office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to domestic and international anti-bribery laws and sanctions, trade laws and regulations, customs laws and regulations and other restrictions imposed by other governmental or international authorities. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to the equipping and operation of drilling rigs, import-export quotas or other trade barriers, repatriation of foreign earnings or capital, oil and gas exploration and development, local content requirements, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. diamond offshore debt levels may limit its liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. diamond offshore business is highly capital intensive and dependent on having sufficient cash flow and/or available sources of financing in order to fund its capital expenditure requirements. as of december 31, 2018, diamond offshore had outstanding $2.0 billion of senior notes, maturing at various times from 2023 through 2043. as of february 8, 2019, diamond offshore had no outstanding borrowings under its $325 million revolving credit facility maturing in 2020 or its $950 million revolving credit facility maturing in october of 2023, and an aggregate $1.3 billion available under both such credit facilities, subject to their respective terms, to meet its short term liquidity requirements. at various times in 2019, $100 million of the commitments under the $325 million revolving credit facility will mature, and the remaining $225 million of commitments will mature in october of 2020. diamond offshore may incur additional indebtedness in the future and borrow from time to time under its revolving credit facilities to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other needs, subject to compliance with its covenants. diamond offshore ability to meet its debt service obligations is dependent upon its future performance, which is unpredictable. high levels of indebtedness could have negative consequences to diamond offshore, including: it may have difficulty satisfying its obligations with respect to its outstanding debt; it may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; it may need to use a substantial portion of available cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on its debt, which would reduce the amount of money available to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, the payment of dividends and other general corporate or business activities; vulnerability to the effects of general economic downturns, adverse industry conditions and adverse operating results could increase; flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and in its industry in general could be limited; 27 it may not have the ability to pursue business opportunities that become available; the amount of debt and the amount it must pay to service its debt obligations could place diamond offshore at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and customers may react adversely to its significant debt level and seek alternative service providers. in addition, diamond offshore failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in its debt instruments could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on its business. among other things, these covenants require diamond offshore to maintain a specified ratio of its consolidated indebtedness to total capitalization, a specified ratio of the aggregate value of certain of its rigs to the aggregate value of substantially all rigs owned by diamond offshore, a specified ratio of the aggregate value of certain of its marketed rigs to the sum of the commitments under the $950 million revolving credit facility plus certain outstanding loans, letter of credit exposures and other indebtedness and limit the ability of its subsidiaries to incur debt. in 2018, s&amp;p downgraded diamond offshore corporate credit rating to b from b+ and moody downgraded its corporate credit rating to b2 from ba3. the rating outlook from both s&amp;p and moody remains negative. these credit ratings are below investment grade and could raise diamond offshore cost of financing. as a consequence, diamond offshore may not be able to issue additional debt in amounts and/or with terms that it considers to be reasonable. one or more of these occurrences could limit diamond offshore ability to pursue other business opportunities. diamond offshore revolving credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, based on its corporate credit rating and market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, diamond offshore cost to borrow under its revolving credit facilities may also increase. although diamond offshore may employ hedging strategies such that a portion of the aggregate principal amount outstanding under this credit facilities would effectively carry a fixed rate of interest, any hedging arrangement put in place may not offer complete protection from this risk. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipeline partners, lp the price differentials between natural gas supplies and market demand for natural gas have reduced the transportation rates that boardwalk pipeline can charge on certain portions of its pipeline systems. the transportation rates boardwalk pipeline is able to charge customers are heavily influenced by market trends (both short and longer term), including the available supply, geographical location of natural gas production, the competition between producing basins, competition with other pipelines for supply and markets, the demand for gas by end-users such as power plants, petrochemical facilities and lng export facilities and the price differentials between the gas supplies and the market demand for the gas (basis differentials). current market conditions have resulted in a sustained narrowing of basis differentials on certain portions of boardwalk pipeline pipeline system, which has reduced transportation rates that can be charged in the affected areas and adversely affected the contract terms boardwalk pipeline can secure from its customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts being renewed or replaced. the prevailing market conditions may also lead some of its customers to seek to renegotiate existing contracts to terms that are less attractive to boardwalk pipeline; for example, seeking a current price reduction in exchange for an extension of the contract term. boardwalk pipeline expects these market conditions to continue. boardwalk pipeline actual construction and development costs could exceed its forecasts, its anticipated cash flow from construction and development projects will not be immediate and its construction and development projects may not be completed on time or at all. boardwalk pipeline is engaged in several construction projects involving its existing assets and the construction of new facilities for which it has expended or will expend significant capital. boardwalk pipeline expects to continue to engage in the construction of additional growth projects and modifications of its system. when boardwalk pipeline builds a new pipeline or expands or modifies an existing facility, the design, construction and development occurs over an extended period of time, and it will not receive any revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed into commercial service. on boardwalk pipeline interstate pipelines there are several years between when the project is announced and when customers begin using the new facilities. during this period, boardwalk pipeline 28 spends capital and incurs costs without receiving any of the financial benefits associated with the projects. the construction of new assets involves regulatory (federal, state and local), landowner opposition, environmental, activist, legal, political, materials and labor costs, as well as operational and other risks that are difficult to predict and some are beyond boardwalk pipeline control. a project may not be completed on time or at all due to a variety of factors, may be impacted by significant cost overruns or may be materially changed prior to completion as a result of developments or circumstances that boardwalk pipeline is not aware of when it commits to the project, including the inability of any shipper to provide adequate credit support or to otherwise perform their obligations under any precedent agreements. any of these events could result in material unexpected costs or have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipeline ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its growth projects. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipeline natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc, including the types, rates and terms of services boardwalk pipeline may offer to its customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities and recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. an adverse ferc action in any of these areas could affect boardwalk pipeline ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. this regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to the ferc regulations. the ferc can also deny boardwalk pipeline the right to abandon certain facilities from service. the ferc also regulates the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. for cost-based services, the ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates boardwalk pipeline can charge. the basic elements that the ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ) changed several provisions of the federal tax code, including a reduction in the maximum corporate tax rate. in addition, the ferc issued a series of policies and orders throughout 2018 which addressed the inclusion of federal income tax allowances in interstate pipeline companies rates. the ferc issued a revised policy statement on treatment of income taxes ( revised policy statement ) reversing its long-standing policy by stating that it will no longer permit master limited partnerships to include an income tax allowance in their cost-of-service. the purchase of the outstanding common units by the general partner in 2018 and its election to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, precluded the impact these policies and orders would have on the ability of boardwalk pipeline ferc-regulated natural gas pipelines to include an income tax allowance in their cost-of-service. the ferc also issued an order which required all ferc-regulated natural gas pipelines to make a one-time informational filing reflecting the impacts of the tax act and the revised policy statement on each individual pipeline cost-of-service. texas gas filed its informational filing on october 11, 2018, and gulf south and gulf crossing made their filings on december 6, 2018. customers were provided an opportunity to protest or comment on each pipeline informational filing. this procedure could lead to challenges to a pipeline currently effective maximum applicable rates pursuant to section 5 of the nga. to date, the ferc has initiated four section 5 proceedings against non-affiliated interstate natural gas pipelines and has notified other non-affiliated natural gas pipelines that no further action will be taken with respect to their information filings. as of february 13, 2019, texas gas, gulf south and gulf crossing informational filings remain open. even without action on boardwalk pipeline informational filings, the ferc and/or boardwalk pipeline customers could challenge the maximum applicable rates that any of its regulated pipelines are allowed to charge in accordance with section 5 of the nga. the tax act and the revised policy statement may increase the likelihood of such a challenge. if such a challenge is successful for any of boardwalk pipeline pipelines, the revenues associated with transportation and storage services the pipeline provides pursuant to cost-of-service rates could materially decrease in the future, which would adversely affect the revenues on that pipeline going forward. 29 in april of 2018, the ferc issued a notice of inquiry ( certificate policy statement noi ), thereby initiating a review of its policies on certification of natural gas pipelines facilities, including an examination of its long-standing policy statement on certification of new interstate natural gas pipeline facilities, issued in 1999, that is used to determine whether to grant certificates for new pipeline and storage projects and expansions. comments on the certificate policy statement noi were due on july 25, 2018, and boardwalk pipeline was unable to predict what, if any, changes may be proposed that will affect its natural gas pipeline business or when such proposals, if any, might become effective. legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more prescriptive compliance activities, substantial changes to existing integrity management programs or withdrawal of regulatory waivers could subject boardwalk pipeline to increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. boardwalk pipeline interstate pipelines are subject to regulation by phmsa, which is part of the dot. phmsa regulates the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of existing interstate natural gas and ngls pipeline facilities. phmsa regulation currently requires pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including frequent inspections, correction of certain identified anomalies and other measures to promote pipeline safety in hcas, such as high population areas, areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. states have jurisdiction over certain of boardwalk pipeline intrastate pipelines and have adopted regulations similar to existing phmsa regulations. state regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law that affect boardwalk pipeline intrastate operations. compliance with these rules over time generally has resulted in an overall increase in maintenance costs. the imposition of new or more stringent pipeline safety rules applicable to natural gas or ngl pipelines, or any issuance or reinterpretation of guidance from phmsa or any state agencies with respect thereto could cause boardwalk pipeline to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in boardwalk pipeline incurring increased capital and operating costs, experience operational delays, and result in potential adverse impacts to its operations or ability to reliably serve its customers. requirements that are imposed under the 2011 act or the more recent 2016 act may also increase boardwalk pipeline capital and operating costs or impact the operation of its pipelines. for example, in 2016, phmsa published a proposed rulemaking that would impose new or more stringent requirements for certain natural gas pipelines including, among other things, expanding certain of phmsa current regulatory safety programs for natural gas lines in newly defined moderate consequence areas that do not qualify as hcas and requiring maximum allowable operating pressure validation through re-verification of all historical records for pipelines in service, which may require natural gas pipelines installed before 1970 (previously excluded from certain pressure testing obligations) to be pressure tested. boardwalk pipeline has entered into certain firm transportation contracts with shippers on certain of its expansion projects that utilize the design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, based upon the authority boardwalk pipeline received from phmsa to operate those pipelines at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline smys under issued permits with specific conditions. phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, it could affect boardwalk pipeline ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipeline assets and it could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. boardwalk pipeline is exposed to credit risk relating to default or bankruptcy by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the default by a customer of its contractual obligations or the customer filing bankruptcy. boardwalk pipeline has credit risk with both its existing customers and those supporting its growth projects. credit risk exists in relation to boardwalk pipeline growth projects, both because foundation customers make long term firm capacity commitments to boardwalk pipeline for such projects and certain of those foundation customers agree to provide credit support as construction for such projects progresses. if a customer fails to post the required credit support during the growth project process, overall returns on the project may be reduced to the extent an adjustment to the scope of the project results or boardwalk pipeline is unable to replace the defaulting customer. 30 boardwalk pipeline credit exposure also includes receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by boardwalk pipeline to them under certain nns and parking and lending ( pal ) services. boardwalk pipeline may not be able to replace expiring natural gas transportation contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and may not be able to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all due to market conditions. each year, a portion of boardwalk pipeline firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be replaced or renewed. over the past several years, as a result of current market conditions, boardwalk pipeline has renewed some expiring contracts at lower rates or for shorter terms than in the past. in addition to normal contract expirations, in the 2018 to 2020 timeframe, transportation agreements associated with boardwalk pipeline gulf south, texas gas and gulf crossing pipeline expansion projects, which were placed into service in 2008 and 2009, will expire or have expired. in late 2017 and throughout 2018, a substantial portion of the capacity becoming available from the 2018 expiring expansion project contracts was renewed or the contracts were restructured, usually at lower rates or lower volumes. as the terms of these remaining expansion contracts expire through 2020, boardwalk pipeline transportation contract expirations are expected to be at a higher than normal level. if these contracts are renewed at current market rates, the revenues earned from these transportation contracts would be materially lower than they are today. for a discussion of current developments, see the contract renewals portion of the results of operations-boardwalk pipeline sections of md&amp;a under item 7. changes in energy prices, including natural gas, oil and ngls, impact the supply of and demand for those commodities, which impact boardwalk pipeline business. boardwalk pipeline customers, especially producers, are directly impacted by changes in commodity prices. the prices of natural gas, oil and ngls fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors. the declines in the levels of natural gas, oil and ngls prices experienced in recent history have adversely affected the businesses of boardwalk pipeline producer customers and reduced the demand for boardwalk pipeline services and could result in defaults or the non-renewal of boardwalk pipeline contracted capacity when existing contracts expire. future increases in the price of natural gas and ngls could make alternative energy and feedstock sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas and ngls. a reduced level of demand for natural gas and ngls could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipeline systems and reduce the demand of its services. boardwalk pipeline substantial indebtedness could affect its ability to meet its obligations and may otherwise restrict its activities. boardwalk pipeline has a significant amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. boardwalk pipeline inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipeline substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit boardwalk pipeline ability to borrow money for its working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other general business activities; increase boardwalk pipeline vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit boardwalk pipeline ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing its business through acquisitions. in addition, the credit agreements governing boardwalk pipeline current indebtedness contain, and any future debt instruments would likely contain, financial or other restrictive covenants, which impose significant operating and financial restrictions. as a result of these covenants, boardwalk pipeline could be limited in the manner in which it conducts its business and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance its future operations or capital needs. furthermore, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on its business. 31 boardwalk pipeline will be permitted, under its revolving credit facility and the indentures governing its notes, to incur additional debt, subject to certain limitations under its revolving credit facility and, in the case of unsecured debt, under the indentures governing the notes. if boardwalk pipeline incurs additional debt, its increased leverage could also result in the consequences described above. limited access to the debt markets could adversely affect boardwalk pipeline business. boardwalk pipeline anticipates funding its capital spending requirements through its available financing options, including cash generated from operations and borrowings under its revolving credit facility. changes in the debt markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. this may affect its ability to raise needed funding and reduce the amount of cash available to fund its operations or growth projects. if the debt markets were not available, it is not certain if other adequate financing options would be available to boardwalk pipeline on terms and conditions that it would find acceptable. any disruption in the debt markets could require boardwalk pipeline to take additional measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until it can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs. such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing its operations to lower expenses and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. boardwalk pipeline may be unable to execute its growth strategy or take advantage of certain business opportunities. boardwalk pipeline does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to its operations. boardwalk pipeline does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and boardwalk pipeline is subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. boardwalk pipeline obtains the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. boardwalk pipeline cannot guarantee that it will always be able to renew, when necessary, existing rights-of-way or obtain new rights-of-way without experiencing significant costs. any loss of these land use rights with respect to the operation of boardwalk pipeline pipelines and facilities, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in executing its strategy to grow and diversify its business. boardwalk pipeline relies primarily on the revenues generated from its natural gas long-haul transportation and storage services. negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on boardwalk pipeline financial condition and results of operations than if it maintained more diverse assets. boardwalk pipeline is pursuing a strategy of growing and diversifying its business through acquisition and development of assets in complementary areas of the midstream energy sector. boardwalk pipeline ability to grow, diversify and increase cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to expand its existing business lines and to close and execute on accretive acquisitions. boardwalk pipeline may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. any such transactions involve potential risks that may include, among other things: the diversion of management and employees attention from other business concerns; inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies; a decrease in boardwalk pipeline liquidity as a result of using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project; a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if it incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of debt; 32 an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals. additionally, acquisitions also contain the following risks: an inability to integrate successfully the businesses boardwalk pipeline acquires; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which it is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies may exclude from coverage; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. boardwalk pipeline ability to replace expiring gas storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all are subject to market conditions. boardwalk pipeline owns and operates substantial natural gas storage facilities. the market for the storage and pal services that it offers is impacted by the factors and market conditions discussed above for boardwalk pipeline transportation services, and is also impacted by natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. when market conditions cause a narrowing of time period price spreads and a decline in the price volatility of natural gas, these factors adversely impact the rates boardwalk pipeline can charge for its storage and pal services. boardwalk pipeline operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which it may not be adequately insured. there are a variety of operating risks inherent in transporting and storing natural gas, ethylene and ngls, such as leaks and other forms of releases, explosions, fires, cyber-attacks and mechanical problems, which could have catastrophic consequences. additionally, the nature and location of boardwalk pipeline business may make it susceptible to catastrophic losses from hurricanes or other named storms, particularly with regard to its assets in the gulf coast region, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, and other severe weather. any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of boardwalk pipeline operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations and substantial financial losses. the location of pipelines in hcas, which includes populated areas, residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from some of these risks. boardwalk pipeline currently possesses property, business interruption, cyber threat and general liability insurance, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage boardwalk pipeline does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. climate change legislation and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases ( ghgs ) could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for boardwalk pipeline pipeline and storage services. climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. this issue has also become more important in the review of ferc certificate applications. while no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented at the federal level, the environmental protection agency ( epa ) and states or groupings of states have pursued legal initiatives in recent years that seek to reduce ghg emissions through efforts that include consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes and ghg reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit 33 ghg emissions from certain sources such as, for example, limitations on emissions of methane through equipment control and leak detection and repair requirements. in november of 2018, the current administration released an updated national climate assessment that was issued pursuant to u.s. federal law. the assessment summarizes the impacts of climate change on the u.s., now and in the future. this report could serve as a basis for increasing governmental pursuit of policies to restrict ghg emissions. in particular, the epa has adopted rules that, among other things, establish certain permit reviews for ghg emissions from certain large stationary sources, which reviews could require securing permits at covered facilities emitting ghgs and meeting defined technological standards for those ghg emissions. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the u.s., including, among others, onshore processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities as well as gathering, compression and boosting facilities and blowdowns of natural gas transmission pipelines. federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a ghg, from oil and natural gas operations. the adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of ghgs or otherwise restrict emissions of ghgs could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. risks related to us and our subsidiary, loews hotels holding corporation loews hotels &amp; co business may be adversely affected by various operating risks common to the lodging industry, including competition, excess supply and dependence on business travel and tourism. loews hotels &amp; co owns and operates hotels which have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets. a typical office property, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provide a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. hotels, on the other hand, generate revenue from guests that typically stay at the hotel for only a few nights, which causes the room rate and occupancy levels at each hotel to change every day, and results in earnings that can be highly volatile. in addition, loews hotels &amp; co properties are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond loews hotels &amp; co control, including: changes in general economic conditions, including the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy and financial markets; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases; natural or man-made disasters; any material reduction or prolonged interruption of public utilities and services; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending and cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business due to adverse economic conditions or otherwise; decreased need for business-related travel due to innovations in business-related technology; competition from other hotels and alternative accommodations, such as airbnb, in the markets in which loews hotels &amp; co operates; requirements for periodic capital reinvestment to maintain and upgrade hotels; increases in operating costs, including labor (including minimum wage increases), workers compensation, benefits, insurance, food, energy and unanticipated costs resulting from force majeure events, due to inflation, 34 new or different federal, state or local governmental regulations, including tariffs, and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations; organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for loews hotels &amp; co properties generally as a result of certain labor tactics; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers, including with respect to the underlying attractions supporting loews hotels &amp; co existing and under development immersive destination properties, such as the universal theme park for its orlando, florida properties, the stadiums in arlington, texas and st. louis, missouri for its live! by loews hotels and convention centers for properties in other markets, geographic concentration of operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; and relationships with third-party property owners, developers, landlords and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners and/or partners may terminate management or joint venture agreements. these factors, and the reputational repercussions of these factors, could adversely affect, and from time to time have adversely affected, individual hotels and hotels in particular regions. loews hotels &amp; co is exposed to the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate, which could increase its costs, reduce its profits, limit its ability to respond to market conditions or restrict its growth strategy. loews hotels &amp; co proportion of owned and leased properties, compared to the number of properties that it manages for third-party owners, is larger than that of some of its competitors. real estate ownership and leasing is subject to risks not applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: real estate, insurance, zoning, tax, environmental and eminent domain laws; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and the availability of replacement financing; risks associated with the possibility that cost increases will outpace revenue increases and that, in the event of an economic slowdown, a high proportion of fixed costs will make it difficult to reduce costs to the extent required to offset declining revenues; risks associated with real estate leases, including the possibility of rent increases and the inability to renew or extend upon favorable terms; fluctuations in real estate values and potential impairments in the value of loews hotels &amp; co assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which loews hotels &amp; co properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the consumer base served. loews hotels &amp; co generally expects revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of its industry may contribute to fluctuation in loews hotels &amp; co results of operations and financial condition. 35 loews hotels &amp; co operates in a highly competitive industry, both for customers and for acquisitions and developments of new properties. the lodging industry is highly competitive. loews hotels &amp; co properties compete with other hotels and alternative accommodations based on a number of factors, including room rates, quality of accommodations, service levels and amenities, location, brand affiliation, reputation and reservation systems. new hotels may be constructed and these additions to supply create new competitors, in some cases without corresponding increases in demand for hotel rooms. some of its competitors also have greater financial and marketing resources than loews hotels &amp; co. in addition, travelers can book stays on websites that facilitate the short-term rental of homes and apartments from owners, thereby providing an alternative to hotel rooms. loews hotels &amp; co also competes for hotel acquisitions and development projects with entities that have similar investment objectives as it does. this competition could limit the number of suitable investment opportunities. it may also increase the bargaining power of loews hotels &amp; co counterparties, making it more difficult for loews hotels &amp; co to acquire or develop new properties on attractive terms or on the terms contemplated in its business plan. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of loews hotels &amp; co brands could have an adverse effect on its reputation and business. loews hotels &amp; co brands and its reputation are among its most important assets. its ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of its brands and their associated reputation. if its brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, or its brands or reputation are otherwise harmed, loews hotels &amp; co may be unable to attract guests to its properties, and may further be unable to attract or retain joint venture partners or hotel owners. loews hotels &amp; co reputation may also suffer as a result of negative publicity regarding its hotels, including as a result of social media reports, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity. the continued expansion of media and social media formats has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity and has made it more difficult to control and effectively manage negative publicity. loews hotels &amp; co efforts to develop new properties and renovate existing properties could be delayed or become more expensive. loews hotels &amp; co from time to time renovates its properties and is currently expanding its portfolio through the ground-up construction of a number of new developments, including new properties in orlando, florida, arlington, texas, kansas city, missouri and st. louis, missouri and in the future may similarly develop additional new properties. often these projects are undertaken with joint venture partners. these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials or unforeseeable site conditions) that may increase project costs or cause new development projects to not be completed by lender imposed required completion dates; obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes or floods; and design defects that could increase costs. additionally, developing new properties typically involves lengthy development periods during which significant amounts of capital must be funded before the properties begin to operate and generate revenue. if the cost of funding new development exceeds budgeted amounts, and/or the time period for development is longer than initially anticipated, loews hotels &amp; co profits could be reduced. further, due to the lengthy development cycle, intervening 36 adverse economic conditions in general and as they apply to loews hotels &amp; co and its development partners may alter or impede the development plans, thereby resulting in incremental costs or potential impairment charges. in addition, using multiple sources of capital to develop new properties reduces or eliminates the ability of loews hotels &amp; co to cease commenced projects if the overall economic environment conditions change. moreover, during the early stages of operations, charges related to interest expense and depreciation may substantially detract from, or even outweigh, the profitability of certain new property investments. loews hotels &amp; co properties are geographically concentrated, which exposes its business to the effects of regional events and occurrences. loews hotels &amp; co has a concentration of hotels in florida. specifically, as of december 31, 2018, seven hotels, representing approximately 55% of rooms in its system, were located in florida. the concentration of hotels in one region or a limited number of markets may expose loews hotels &amp; co to risks of adverse economic and other developments that are greater than if its portfolio were more geographically diverse. these developments include regional economic downturns, a decline in the popularity of or access to area tourist attractions, such as theme parks, significant increases in the number of loews hotels &amp; co competitors hotels in these markets and potentially higher local property, sales and income taxes in the geographic markets in which it is concentrated. in addition, loews hotels &amp; co properties in florida are subject to the effects of adverse acts of nature, such as hurricanes, strong winds and flooding, which have in the past caused damage to its hotels in florida, which may in the future be intensified as a result of climate change, as well as outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases. the growth and use of alternative reservation channels adversely affects loews hotels &amp; co business. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for guests at loews hotels &amp; co properties is booked through internet travel and other intermediaries. in most cases, loews hotels &amp; co has agreements with such intermediaries and pays them commissions and/or fees for sales of its rooms through their systems. if such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions or fees, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from loews hotels &amp; co. there can be no assurance that loews hotels &amp; co will be able to negotiate such agreements in the future with terms as favorable as those that exist today. moreover, these intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites and other outlets. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to loews hotels &amp; co brands. under certain circumstances, loews hotels &amp; co insurance coverage may not cover all possible losses, and it may not be able to renew its insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. although loews hotels &amp; co maintains various property, casualty and other insurance policies, proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage loews hotels &amp; co does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. labor shortages could restrict loews hotels &amp; co ability to operate its properties or grow its business or result in increased labor costs that could reduce its profits. loews hotels &amp; co properties are staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week by thousands of employees. if it is unable to attract, retain, train and engage skilled employees, its ability to manage and staff its properties adequately could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. staffing shortages could also hinder its ability to grow and expand its business. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at its properties, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase its labor costs. 37 risks related to us and our subsidiary, consolidated container company llc consolidated container substantial indebtedness could affect its ability to meet its obligations and may otherwise restrict its activities. consolidated container has a significant amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. its inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on its business. consolidated container substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit its ability to borrow money for its working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit its ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing its business through acquisitions. in addition, the credit agreements governing its current indebtedness contain, and any future debt instruments would likely contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, which impose significant operating and financial restrictions on it. as a result of these covenants, consolidated container could be limited in the manner in which it conducts its business and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. furthermore, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on consolidated container. fluctuations in raw material prices and raw material availability may affect consolidated container results. to produce its products, consolidated container uses large quantities of plastic resins and recycled plastic materials. it faces the risk that its access to these raw materials may be interrupted or that it may not be able to purchase these raw materials at prices that are acceptable to it. in general, consolidated container does not have long-term supply contracts with its suppliers, and its purchases of raw materials are subject to market price volatility. although consolidated container generally is able to pass changes in the prices of raw materials through to its customers over a period of time, it may not always be able to do so or there may be a lag between when its costs increase and when it passes those costs through to its customers. it may not be able to pass through all future raw material price increases in a timely manner or at all due to competitive pressures. in addition, a sustained increase in resin and recycled plastic prices, relative to alternative packaging materials, would make plastic containers less economical for its customers and could result in a slower pace of conversions to, or reductions in the use of, plastic containers. any limitation on its ability to procure its primary raw materials or to pass through price increases in such materials on a timely basis could negatively affect consolidated container. consolidated container customers may increase their self-manufacturing. increased self-manufacturing by consolidated container customers may have a material adverse impact on its sales volume and financial results. consolidated container believes that its customers may engage in self-manufacturing over time at locations where transportation costs are high, and where low complexity and available space to install blow molding equipment exists. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face additional risks and uncertainties described below. acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in the united states or abroad, the continuation or escalation of existing armed hostilities or the outbreak of additional hostilities, including military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on us and the assets and businesses of our subsidiaries. cna 38 issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from an act of terrorism. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism could also result in increased political, economic and financial market instability, a decline in energy consumption and volatility in the price of oil and gas, which could affect the market for diamond offshore drilling services and boardwalk pipeline transportation and storage services. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries operate could adversely impact us. changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties applicable to us or our subsidiaries or changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof could materially and adversely impact our and our subsidiaries tax liability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including the amount of cash our subsidiaries have available to distribute to their shareholders, including us. in particular, potential changes to tax laws relating to tax attributes or credits, the corporate tax rate or the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (and thus the rate at which cna discounts its long term care reserves) or foreign earnings could have such material adverse effects. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state, local, foreign and international environmental laws, including those relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal, removal or clean up of hazardous wastes and other activities relating to the protection of the environment. many of such laws have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. boardwalk pipeline is also subject to environmental laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release and requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. further, existing environmental laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof may be amended and new laws may be adopted in the future. failures or interruptions in or breaches to our or our subsidiaries computer systems could materially and adversely affect our or our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries are dependent upon information technologies, computer systems and networks, including those maintained by us and our subsidiaries and those maintained and provided to us and our subsidiaries by third parties (for example, software-as-a-service and cloud solutions), to conduct operations and are reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our and their businesses. we and our subsidiaries are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our and their businesses. any failure of our or our subsidiaries computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. computer, telecommunications and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, fires, utility outages, theft, design defects, human error or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. in addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called cyber attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. in particular, the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate energy assets may be specific targets of cyber attacks, which can have catastrophic consequences and there have also been reports that hotel chains, among other consumer-facing businesses, have been subject to various cyber attacks targeting payment card and other sensitive consumer information. breaches of our and our subsidiaries computer security infrastructure can result from actions by our employees, vendors, third party administrators or by unknown third parties, and may disrupt our or their operations, cause damage to our or their assets and surrounding areas and impact our or their data framework or cause a failure to protect personal information of customers or employees. 39 the foregoing risks relating to disruption of service, interruption of operations and data loss could impact our and our subsidiaries ability to timely perform critical business functions, resulting in disruption or deterioration in our and our subsidiaries operations and business and expose us and our subsidiaries to monetary and reputational damages. in addition, potential exposures include substantially increased compliance costs and required computer system upgrades and security related investments. the breach of confidential information also could give rise to legal liability and regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. some of our subsidiaries customer bases are concentrated. some of our subsidiaries customer bases are concentrated. for instance, during 2018, two of diamond offshore customers in the gulf of mexico and diamond offshore three largest customers accounted for 59% and an aggregate of 75% of its annual total consolidated revenues. in addition, the number of customers that it has performed services for declined from 35 in 2014 to 13 in 2018. for boardwalk pipeline, while no customer comprised more than 10% or more of its operating revenues, its top ten customers comprised approximately 40% of its revenues during 2018. consolidated container also depends on several large customers. the loss of or other problem with a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on these subsidiaries businesses and our financial results. loss of key vendor relationships or issues relating to the transitioning of vendor relationships could result in a materially adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries rely on products, equipment and services provided by many third party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers in the united states and abroad, which exposes us and them to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. these include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services (including, in the case of cna, claims administrators performing significant claims administration and adjudication functions). certain products, equipment and services may be available from a limited number of sources. if one or more key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products, equipment or services at the requisite level for any reason, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may experience a material adverse effect on our or their business, operations and reputation. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, pipeline and storage assets at boardwalk pipeline and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. in particular, diamond offshore is currently experiencing declining demand for certain offshore drilling rigs as a result of excess rig supply in the industry and depressed market conditions. as a result, diamond offshore may incur additional asset impairments, rig retirements and/or rigs being scrapped. we also test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. asset impairment evaluations by us and our subsidiaries with respect to both long-lived assets and goodwill are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could adversely affect our or our subsidiaries operations. we and our subsidiaries are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( gaap ), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ). it is possible that future accounting standards that we and our subsidiaries are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we and our subsidiaries apply to our and our subsidiaries 40 consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries results of operations and financial condition. for further information regarding changes in accounting standards that are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact to the company, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included under item 8. we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. we and our subsidiaries face competition for senior executives and qualified specialized talent. we and our subsidiaries depend on the services of our key personnel, who possess skills critical to the operation of our and their businesses. our and our subsidiaries executive management teams are highly experienced and possess extensive skills in their relevant industries. the ability to retain senior executives and to attract and retain highly skilled professionals and personnel with specialized industry and technical experience is important to our and our subsidiaries success and future growth. competition for this talent can be intense, and we and our subsidiaries may not be successful in our efforts. the unexpected loss of the services of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us and our subsidiaries and could hinder our and their ability to effectively compete in the various industries in which we and they operate. from time to time we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation, for which we and they may be unable to accurately assess the level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a significant adverse effect on our or their consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings and disputes. these matters may include, among others, contract disputes, claims disputes, reinsurance disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, intellectual property disputes, disputes related to employment and tax matters and other litigation incidental to our or their businesses. although our current assessment is that, other than as disclosed in this report, there is no pending litigation that could have a significant adverse impact, it is difficult to predict the outcome or effect of any litigation matters and if our assessment proves to be in error, then the outcome of litigation could have a significant impact on our financial statements. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. while we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims, an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on us. 41 69 short term investments the carrying value of the components of cna short term investments are presented in the following table: december 31 2018 2017 (in millions) short term investments: commercial paper $ 705 $ 905 u.s. treasury securities 185 355 other 396 176 total short term investments $ 1,286 $ 1,436 insurance reserves the level of reserves cna maintains represents its best estimate, as of a particular point in time, of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on cna assessment of facts and circumstances known at that time. reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates that cna derives, generally utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques, from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, both internal and external, many of which are highly uncertain. as noted below, cna reviews its reserves for each segment of its business periodically, and any such review could result in the need to increase reserves in amounts which could be material and could adversely affect our results of operations and equity and cna business and insurer financial strength and corporate debt ratings. further information on reserves is provided in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in the yield rate. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value 80 of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2018 and 2017 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $492 million and $630 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $537 million and $694 million at december 31, 2018 and 2017. consolidated container has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $500 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor on a portion of its variable rate debt. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate on the hedged portion of the term loan at approximately 2.1% plus an applicable margin. at december 31, 2018 and 2017, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt, net of the effects of the swaps, would increase interest expense by approximately $7 million and $5 million on an annual basis. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2018 and 2017, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2018 and 2017, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous decrease of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2018 and 2017. we have exposure to price risk as a result of consolidated container purchases of certain raw materials, such as high-density polyethylene, polycarbonate, polypropylene and polyethylene terephthalate resins in connection with the production of its products. the purchase prices of these raw materials are determined based on prevailing market conditions. while consolidated container operations are affected by fluctuations in resin prices, its net income over time is generally unaffected by these changes as these costs are generally passed through to its customers. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. 81 the following tables present the estimated effects on the fair value of our financial instruments as of december 31, 2018 and 2017 due to an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, a 20% decline in foreign currency exchange rates and a 25% decline in the s&amp;p 500, with all other variables held constant, on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: increase (decrease) december 31, 2018 fair value asset (liability) interest rate risk equity price risk (in millions) fixed maturities long $ 157 $ (1) equity securities long 495 $ (124 ) short (6 ) 2 options purchased 18 28 written (17 ) (19 ) other invested assets 5 short term investments 1,926 (4) other than trading portfolio: increase (decrease) december 31, 2018 fair value asset (liability) interest rate risk foreign currency risk equity price risk (in millions) fixed maturities $ 39,542 $ (2,440 ) $ (406 ) equity securities 780 (29 ) (3 ) $ (46 ) limited partnership investments 2,424 (308 ) other invested assets 53 (9 ) mortgage loans 827 (36 ) short term investments 1,943 (1 ) (24 ) interest rate swaps (a) 11 22 other derivatives 4 15 (a) the market risk at december 31, 2018 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 82 trading portfolio: increase (decrease) december 31, 2017 fair value asset (liability) interest rate risk equity price risk (in millions) fixed maturities long $ 649 $ (1 ) equity securities long 517 $ (129 ) short (5 ) 1 options purchased 12 16 written (7 ) (15 ) other invested assets 60 (1 ) short term investments 2,745 other derivatives 1 67 other than trading portfolio: increase (decrease) december 31, 2017 fair value asset (liability) interest rate risk foreign currency risk equity price risk (in millions) fixed maturities $ 41,484 $ (2,559 ) $ (429 ) equity securities 695 (26 ) (4 ) $ (16 ) limited partnership investments 3,278 (464 ) other invested assets 44 (7 ) mortgage loans 844 (40 ) short term investments 1,901 (1 ) (20 ) interest rate swaps (a) 4 26 other derivatives (3 ) 17 (a) the market risk at december 31, 2017 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 83risk factors. our business and the businesses of our subsidiaries face many risks and uncertainties. these risks and uncertainties could lead to events or circumstances that have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or equity and/or the business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, or equity of one or more of our subsidiaries. we have described below the most significant risks facing us and our subsidiaries. there may be additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we do not currently perceive to be as significant that may also impact our business or the businesses of our subsidiaries. you should carefully consider and evaluate all of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) and the information we make available to the public before investing in any securities issued by us. our subsidiaries, cna financial corporation, diamond offshore drilling, inc. and boardwalk pipeline partners, lp, also file reports with the sec. you are also cautioned to carefully review and consider the information contained in the reports filed by those subsidiaries with the sec and the information they make available to the public before investing in any of their securities. risks related to us and our subsidiary, cna if cna determines that its recorded insurance reserves are insufficient to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, cna may need to increase its insurance reserves which would result in a charge to cna's earnings. cna maintains insurance reserves to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for claim and claim adjustment expenses, including the estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for reported and unreported claims. insurance reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex management estimates developed utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques as of a given reporting date. the reserve estimation process involves a high degree of judgment and variability and is subject to a number of factors which are highly uncertain. these variables can be affected by both changes in internal processes and external events. key variables include frequency of claims, claim severity, mortality, morbidity, discount rates, inflation, claim handling policies and procedures, case reserving approach, underwriting and pricing policies, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the time of its ultimate settlement. mortality is the relative incidence of death. morbidity is the frequency and severity of injury, illness, sickness and diseases contracted. there is generally a higher degree of variability in estimating required reserves for long-tail coverages, such as general liability and workers' compensation, as they require a relatively longer period of time for claims to be reported and settled. the impact of changes in inflation and medical costs are also more pronounced for long-tail coverages due to the longer settlement period. certain risks and uncertainties associated with cna's insurance reserves are outlined in the insurance reserves and critical accounting estimates sections of md&amp;a in item 7. cna is subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential claims and coverage issues that arise as industry practices and legal, judicial, social, economic and other environmental conditions change. these issues have had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on cna's business by either extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, resulting in further increases in cna's reserves. the effects of unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict. in light of the many uncertainties associated with establishing the estimates and making the judgments necessary to establish reserve levels, cna continually reviews and changes its reserve estimates in a regular and ongoing process as experience develops from the actual reporting and settlement of claims and as the legal, regulatory and economic environment evolves. if cna's recorded reserves are insufficient for any reason, the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against its earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. 16 table of contents cna's actual experience could vary from the key assumptions used to determine active life reserves for long term care policies. cna's active life reserves for long term care policies are based on cna's best estimate assumptions as of september 30, 2019, due to a reserve unlocking at that date. key assumptions include morbidity, persistency (the percentage of policies remaining in force), discount rate and future premium rate increases. these assumptions, which are critical bases for its reserve estimates are inherently uncertain. if actual experience varies from these assumptions or the future outlook for these assumptions changes, cna may be required to increase its reserves. see the long term care policyholder reserves portion of the insurance reserves section of md&amp;a in item 7 for more information. estimating future experience for long term care policies is highly uncertain, because the adequacy of the reserves is contingent upon actual experience and cna's future expectations related to these key assumptions. if actual or expected future experience differs from these assumptions, the reserves may not be adequate, requiring cna to add reserves. the required increase in reserves would be recorded as a charge against its earnings in the period in which reserves are determined to be insufficient. these charges could be substantial. morbidity and persistency experience, inclusive of mortality, can be volatile and may be negatively affected by many factors including, but not limited to, policyholder behavior, judicial decisions regarding policy terms, socioeconomic factors, cost of care inflation, changes in health trends and advances in medical care. a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in cna's reserving would result in shortfalls in investment income on assets supporting cna's obligations under long term care policies, which may require changes to its reserves. this risk is more significant for cna's long term care products because the long potential duration of the policy obligations exceeds the duration of the supporting investment assets. further, changes to the internal revenue code may also affect the rate at which cna discounts its reserves. in addition, cna may not receive regulatory approval for the level of premium rate increases it requests. any adverse deviation between the level of future premium rate increases approved and the level included in cna's reserving assumptions may require an increase to its reserves. cna is vulnerable to material losses from natural and man-made disasters. catastrophe losses are an inevitable part of cna's business. various events can cause catastrophe losses. these events can be natural or man-made, and may include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather, fires, floods, riots, strikes, civil commotion, cyber attacks, pandemics and acts of terrorism. the frequency and severity of these catastrophe events are inherently unpredictable. in addition, longer-term natural catastrophe trends may be changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that has been associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, and includes effects on global weather patterns, greenhouse gases, sea, land and air temperatures, sea levels, rain, hail and snow. the extent of cna's losses from catastrophes is a function of the total amount of its insured exposures in the affected areas, the frequency and severity of the events themselves, the level of reinsurance coverage, reinsurance reinstatement premiums and state residual market assessments, if any. it can take a long time for the ultimate cost of any catastrophe losses to cna to be finally determined, as a multitude of factors contribute to such costs, including evaluation of general liability and pollution exposures, infrastructure disruption, business interruption and reinsurance collectibility. reinsurance coverage for terrorism events is provided only in limited circumstances, especially in regard to unconventional terrorism acts, such as nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. cna's principal reinsurance protection against these large-scale terrorist attacks is the coverage currently provided through tripra through december 31, 2027. however, such coverage is subject to a mandatory deductible and other limitations. it is also possible that future legislation could change or eliminate the program, which could adversely affect cna's business by increasing its exposure to terrorism losses, or by lowering its business volume through efforts to avoid that exposure. for a further discussion of tripra, see part ii, item 7, md&amp;a - catastrophes and related reinsurance. as a result of the items discussed above, catastrophe losses are particularly difficult to estimate. additionally, catastrophic events could cause cna to exhaust its available reinsurance limits and could adversely affect the cost and availability of reinsurance. 17 table of contents cna has exposure related to a&amp;ep claims, which could result in material losses. cna's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have exposures related to a&amp;ep claims. cna's experience has been that establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for casualty coverages relating to a&amp;ep claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other claims. additionally, traditional actuarial methods and techniques employed to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional property and casualty exposures are less precise in estimating claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for a&amp;ep. as a result, estimating the ultimate cost of both reported and unreported a&amp;ep claims is subject to a higher degree of variability. on august 31, 2010, cna completed a retroactive reinsurance transaction under which substantially all of its legacy a&amp;ep liabilities were ceded to national indemnity company ( nico ), a subsidiary of berkshire hathaway inc., subject to an aggregate limit of $4.0 billion ( loss portfolio transfer or lpt ). the cumulative amount ceded under the loss portfolio transfer as of december 31, 2019 is $3.2 billion. if the other parties to the loss portfolio transfer do not fully perform their obligations, net losses incurred on a&amp;ep claims covered by the loss portfolio transfer exceed the aggregate limit of $4.0 billion or cna determines it has exposures to a&amp;ep claims not covered by the loss portfolio transfer, cna may need to increase its recorded net reserves which would result in a charge against earnings. these charges could be substantial. additionally, if the a&amp;ep claims exceed the limit of the loss portfolio transfer, cna will need to assess whether to purchase additional limit or to reassume claim handling responsibility for a&amp;ep claims from an affiliate of nico. any additional reinsurance premium or future claim handling costs would also reduce cna's earnings. cna is exposed to, and may face adverse developments related to, mass tort claims that could arise from its insureds' sale or use of potentially harmful products or substances, changes to the social and legal environment, issues related to altered interpretation of coverage and other new and emerging claim theories. cna faces potential exposure to various types of new and emerging mass tort claims including, but not limited to, those related to exposure to potentially harmful products or substances such as glyphosate, lead paint and opioids; claims arising from changes that expand the right to sue, remove limitations on recovery, extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise repeal or weaken tort reforms, such as those related to abuse reviver statutes; and claims related to new and emerging theories of liability, such as those related to global warming and climate change. evolving judicial interpretations and new legislation regarding the application of various tort theories and defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several liability, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims, give rise to new claimant activity. emerging mass tort claim activity, including activity based on such changing judicial interpretations and recent and proposed legislation could materially and adversely affect cna's results of operations. cna uses analytical models to assist its decision making in key areas such as pricing, reserving and capital modeling and may be adversely affected if actual results differ materially from the model outputs and related analyses. cna uses various modeling techniques and data analytics (e.g., scenarios, predictive, stochastic and/or forecasting) to analyze and estimate exposures, loss trends and other risks associated with its assets and liabilities. this includes both proprietary and third party modeled outputs and related analyses to assist cna in decision-making related to underwriting, pricing, capital allocation, reserving, investing, reinsurance and catastrophe risk, among other things. cna incorporates numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of policyholder behavior, loss frequency and severity, interest rates, equity markets, inflation, capital requirements, and currency exchange rates, among others. the modeled outputs and related analyses from both proprietary models and third parties are subject to various assumptions, uncertainties, model design errors and the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis. in addition, the effectiveness of any model can be degraded by operational risks including, but not limited to, the improper use of the model, including input errors, data errors and human error. as a result, actual results may differ materially from cna's modeled results. the profitability and financial condition of cna substantially depends on the extent to which its actual experience is consistent with the assumptions cna uses in its models and ultimate model outputs. if, based upon these models or other factors, cna misprices its products or fails to appropriately estimate the risks it is exposed to, its business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity may be materially adversely affected. 18 table of contents cna faces intense competition in its industry. all aspects of the insurance industry are highly competitive and cna must continuously allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance products and services to remain competitive. cna competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies and other entities, some of which may be larger or have greater financial or other resources than cna does, for both distributors and customers. this includes agents, brokers and managing general underwriters who may increasingly compete with cna to the extent that they continue to have direct access to providers of capital seeking exposure to insurance risk. insurers compete on the basis of many factors, including products, price, services, ratings and financial strength. the competitor landscape has evolved substantially in recent years, with significant consolidation and new market entrants, resulting in increased pressures on cna's ability to remain competitive, particularly in obtaining pricing that is both attractive to cna's customer base and risk appropriate to cna. the property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, resulting in less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. during periods in which price competition is high, cna may lose business to competitors offering competitive insurance products at lower prices. as a result, cna's premium levels and expense ratio could be materially adversely impacted. cna markets its insurance products worldwide primarily through independent insurance agents, insurance brokers and managing general underwriters who also promote and distribute the products of cna's competitors. any change in cna's relationships with its distribution network agents, brokers or managing general underwriters including as a result of consolidation and their increased promotion and distribution of cna's competitors' products, could adversely affect cna's ability to sell its products. as a result, cna's business volume and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. cna may be adversely affected by technological changes or disruptions in the insurance marketplace. technological changes in the way insurance transactions are completed in the marketplace, and cna's ability to react effectively to such change, may present significant competitive risks. for example, more insurers are utilizing big data analytics to make underwriting and other decisions that impact product design and pricing. if such utilization is more effective than how cna uses similar data and information, cna will be at a competitive disadvantage. there can be no assurance that cna will continue to compete effectively with its industry peers due to technological changes; accordingly this may have a material adverse effect on cna's business and results of operations. in addition, agents and brokers, technology companies or other third parties may create alternate distribution channels for commercial business that may adversely impact product differentiation and pricing. for example, they may create a digitally enabled distribution channel that may adversely impact cna's competitive position. cna's efforts or the efforts of agents and brokers with respect to new products or alternate distribution channels, as well as changes in the way agents and brokers utilize greater levels of data and technology, could adversely impact cna's business relationships with independent agents and brokers who currently market its products, resulting in a lower volume and/or profitability of business generated from these sources. cna may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost or on terms and conditions it deems acceptable, which could result in increased exposure to risk or a decrease in cna's underwriting commitments. a primary reason cna purchases reinsurance is to manage its exposure to risk. under cna's ceded reinsurance arrangements, another insurer assumes a specified portion of cna's exposure in exchange for a specified portion of policy premiums. market conditions determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection cna purchases, which affects the level of its business and profitability, as well as the level and types of risk cna retains. if cna is unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance at a cost or on terms and conditions it deems acceptable, cna may have increased exposure to risk. alternatively, cna may be unwilling to bear the increased risk and would reduce the level of its underwriting commitments. 19 table of contents cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by reinsurers, which could result in higher net incurred losses. cna has significant amounts recoverable from reinsurers which are reported as receivables on its balance sheets and are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefit reserves. the ceding of insurance does not, however, discharge cna's primary liability for claims. as a result, cna is subject to credit risk relating to its ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. certain of cna's reinsurance carriers could experience credit downgrades by rating agencies within the term of cna's contractual relationship, which would indicate an increase in the likelihood that cna would not be able to recover amounts due. in addition, reinsurers could dispute amounts which cna believes are due to it. if the amounts collected from reinsurers, including any collateral, are less than the amounts recorded by cna, its net incurred losses will be higher. cna may not be able to collect amounts owed to it by policyholders who hold deductible policies and/or who purchase retrospectively rated policies, which could result in higher net incurred losses. a portion of cna's business is written under deductible policies. under these policies, cna is obligated to pay the related insurance claims and is reimbursed by the policyholder to the extent of the deductible, which may be significant. moreover, certain policyholders purchase retrospectively rated workers' compensation policies (i.e., policies in which premiums are adjusted after the policy period based on the actual loss experience of the policyholder during the policy period). retrospectively rated policies expose cna to additional credit risk to the extent that the adjusted premium is greater than the original premium, which may be significant. as a result, cna is exposed to policyholder credit risk. if the amounts collected from policyholders, including any collateral, are less than the amounts recorded by cna, cna's net incurred losses will be higher. cna may incur significant realized and unrealized investment losses and volatility in net investment income arising from changes in the financial markets. cna's investment portfolio is exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, credit spread, issuer default, equity prices and foreign currency, which are unpredictable. financial markets are highly sensitive to changes in economic conditions, monetary policies, tax policies, domestic and international geopolitical issues and many other factors. changes in financial markets including fluctuations in interest rates, credit, equity prices and foreign currency prices, and many other factors beyond cna's control can adversely affect the value of its investments, the realization of investment income and the rate at which it discounts certain liabilities. cna has significant holdings in fixed maturity investments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. a decline in interest rates may reduce the returns earned on new fixed maturity investments, thereby reducing cna's net investment income, while an increase in interest rates may reduce the value of its existing fixed maturity investments, which could reduce cna's net unrealized gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income ( aoci ). the value of cna's fixed maturity investments is also subject to risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of issuers of the investments cna holds or in the underlying collateral of the security. in addition, cna invests a portion of its assets in limited partnerships which are subject to greater market volatility than its fixed maturity investments. limited partnership investments generally provide a lower level of liquidity than fixed maturity or equity investments, which may also limit cna's ability to withdraw funds from these investments. the timing and amount of income or losses on such investments is inherently variable and can contribute to volatility in reported earnings. further, cna holds a portfolio of commercial mortgage loans. cna is subject to risk related to the recoverability of loan balances, which is influenced by declines in the estimated cash flows from underlying property leases, fair value of collateral, refinancing risk and the creditworthiness of tenants of the underlying properties, where lease payments directly service the loan. collecting amounts from borrowers that are less than the amounts recorded would result in a charge to earnings. as a result of these factors, cna may not earn an adequate return on its investments, may be required to write down the value of its investments and may incur losses on the disposition of its investments, all of which would result in a charge to cna's earnings. 20 table of contents inability to detect and prevent significant employee or third party service provider misconduct, inadvertent errors and omissions, or exposure relating to functions performed on cna's behalf could result in a material adverse effect on cna's operations. cna may incur losses which arise from employees or third party service providers engaging in intentional misconduct, fraud, errors and omissions, failure to comply with internal guidelines, including with respect to underwriting authority, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements. cna's controls may not be able to detect all possible circumstances of employee and third party service provider non-compliant activity and the internal structures in place to prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. any losses relating to such non-compliant activity could adversely affect cna's results of operations. portions of cna's insurance business is underwritten and serviced by third parties. with respect to underwriting, cna's contractual arrangements with third parties will typically grant them limited rights to write new and renewal policies, subject to contractual restrictions and obligations and requiring them to underwrite within the terms of cna's licenses. should these third parties issue policies that exceed these contractual restrictions, cna could be deemed liable for such policies and subject to regulatory fines and penalties for any breach of licensing requirements. it is possible that in such circumstance cna might not be fully indemnified for such third parties' contractual breaches. additionally, cna relies on certain third-party claims administrators, including the administrators of its long term care claims, to perform significant claim administration and claim adjudication functions. any failure by such administrator to properly perform service functions may result in losses as a result of over-payment of claims, legal claims against cna and adverse regulatory enforcement exposure. cna has also licensed certain systems from third parties. cna cannot be certain that it will have access to these systems or that its information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. these risks could adversely impact cna's reputation or client relationships or have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. cna is subject to capital adequacy requirements and, if it is unable to maintain or raise sufficient capital to meet these requirements, regulatory agencies may restrict or prohibit cna from operating its business. insurance companies such as cna are subject to capital adequacy standards set by regulators to help identify companies that merit further regulatory attention. in the u.s., these standards apply specified risk factors to various asset, premium and reserve components of cna's legal entity statutory basis of accounting financial statements. current rules, including those promulgated by insurance regulators and specialized markets such as lloyd's, require companies to maintain statutory capital and surplus at a specified minimum level determined using the applicable jurisdiction's regulatory capital adequacy formula. if cna does not meet these minimum requirements, cna may be restricted or prohibited from operating its business in the applicable jurisdictions and specialized markets. if cna is required to record a material charge against earnings in connection with a change in estimated insurance reserves, the occurrence of a catastrophic event or if it incurs significant losses related to its investment portfolio, which severely deteriorates its capital position, cna may violate these minimum capital adequacy requirements unless it is able to raise sufficient additional capital. cna may be limited in its ability to raise significant amounts of capital on favorable terms or at all. the iais recently adopted a common framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups and continues to develop a group basis insurance capital standard ( ics ). the naic is also developing a group capital standard that is intended to be comparable to the ics. the development and adoption of these capital standards could increase cna's prescribed capital requirement, the level at which regulatory scrutiny intensifies, as well as significantly increase its cost of regulatory compliance. cna's insurance subsidiaries, upon whom cna depends for dividends in order to fund its corporate obligations, are limited by insurance regulators in their ability to pay dividends. cna is a holding company and is dependent upon dividends, loans and other sources of cash from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations. ordinary dividend payments or dividends that do not require prior approval by the insurance subsidiaries' domiciliary insurance regulator are generally limited to amounts determined by formulas that vary by jurisdiction. if cna is restricted from paying or receiving intercompany dividends, by regulatory rule or otherwise, cna may not be able to fund its corporate obligations and debt service requirements or pay stockholder 21 table of contents dividends from available cash. as a result, cna would need to look to other sources of capital which may be more expensive or may not be available at all. rating agencies may downgrade their ratings of cna and thereby adversely affect its ability to write insurance at competitive rates or at all. ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. cna's insurance company subsidiaries, as well as cna's public debt, are rated by rating agencies, including, a.m. best company ( a.m. best ), moody's investors service, inc. ( moody's ) and s&amp;p global ratings ( s&amp;p ). ratings reflect the rating agency's opinions of an insurance company's or insurance holding company's financial strength, capital adequacy, enterprise risk management practices, operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and debt holders. the rating agencies may take action to lower cna's ratings in the future as a result of any significant financial loss or possible changes in the methodology or criteria applied by the rating agencies. the severity of the impact on cna's business is dependent on the level of downgrade and, for certain products, which rating agency takes the rating action. among the adverse effects in the event of such downgrades would be the inability to obtain a material volume of business from certain major insurance brokers, the inability to sell a material volume of cna's insurance products to certain markets and the required collateralization of certain future payment obligations or reserves. in addition, it is possible that a significant lowering of our corporate debt ratings by certain of the rating agencies could result in an adverse effect on cna's ratings, independent of any change in cna's circumstances. cna is subject to extensive regulations that restrict its ability to do business and generate revenues. the insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of cna's policyholders and third-party claimants rather than its investors. each jurisdiction in which cna does business has established supervisory agencies that regulate the manner in which cna conducts its business. any changes in regulation could impose significant burdens on cna. in addition, the lloyd's marketplace sets rules under which its members, including cna's hardy syndicate, operate. these rules and regulations relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency (including risk-based capital measures), government-supported backstops for certain catastrophic events (including terrorism), investment restrictions, accounting and reporting methodology, establishment of reserves and potential assessments of funds to settle covered claims against impaired, insolvent or failed private or quasi-governmental insurers. regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations which require that rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. state jurisdictions ensure compliance with such regulations through market conduct exams, which may result in losses to the extent non-compliance is ascertained, either as a result of failure to document transactions properly or failure to comply with internal guidelines, or otherwise. cna may also be required by the jurisdictions in which it does business to provide coverage to persons who would not otherwise be considered eligible or restrict cna from withdrawing from unprofitable lines of business or unprofitable market areas. each jurisdiction dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. cna's share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each jurisdiction. the united kingdom's expected exit from the european union is expected to increase the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of cna's european business. in 2016, the u.k. approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit. while the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. was official as of january 31, 2020, until the transition period ends, there remains a lack of specificity and detail regarding the long term relationship between the two sides and how businesses operating in both jurisdictions may be affected. in any event, effective january 1, 2019, cna's e.u. business is no longer handled out of cna's u.k. domiciled subsidiary but through its european subsidiary in luxembourg which was established specifically to address the departure of the u.k. from the e.u. and to ensure cna's ability to operate effectively throughout the e.u. as a result, the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of its european business has increased and will likely continue to result in elevated expenses. 22 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiary, diamond offshore the current protracted downturn in diamond offshore's industry may continue for several more years and it cannot predict if or when it will end. over the past several years, crude oil prices have been volatile, reaching a high of $115 per barrel in 2014, declining to $55 per barrel by the end of 2014 and reaching a low of $28 per barrel during 2016. oil prices recovered to nearly $57 per barrel by the end of 2016 and have continued to fluctuate. as of the date of this report, brent crude oil prices were in the mid $50 per barrel range, having started 2020 in the mid-to-upper $60 per barrel range. as a result of, among other things, this continued volatility in commodity price and its uncertain future, the offshore drilling industry has experienced, and is continuing to experience, a substantial decline in demand for its services, as well as a significant decline in dayrates for contract drilling services. the decline in demand for diamond offshore's contract drilling services and the dayrates for those services has had, and if the industry downturn continues, will continue to have, a material adverse effect on its business. the protracted downturn in diamond offshore's industry will exacerbate many of the other risks included below and other risks that it faces, and diamond offshore cannot predict if or when the downturn will end. the worldwide demand for diamond offshore's drilling services has historically been dependent on the price of oil and, as a result of low oil prices, demand has continued to be depressed in 2019, and there continues a protracted downturn in its industry. demand for diamond offshore's drilling services depends in large part upon the oil and natural gas industry's offshore exploration and production activity and expenditure levels, which are directly affected by oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in oil and gas prices. beginning in the second half of 2014, oil prices declined significantly, resulting in a sharp decline in the demand for offshore drilling services, including services that diamond offshore provides, and materially adversely affecting diamond offshore's operations and cash flows compared to years before the decline. the continuation of low oil prices would make more severe the downturn in diamond offshore's industry and would continue to materially adversely affect many of its customers and, therefore, demand for its services and on its business. oil prices have been, and are expected to continue to be, volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond diamond offshore's control. although, historically, higher sustained commodity prices have generally resulted in increases in offshore drilling projects, short term or temporary increases in the price of oil and gas will not necessarily result in an increase in offshore drilling activity or an increase in the market demand for diamond offshore's rigs. the timing of commitment to offshore activity in a cycle depends on project deployment times, reserve replacement needs, availability of capital and alternative options for resource development, among other things. timing can also be affected by availability, access to, and cost of equipment to perform work. diamond offshore's business depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which has been cyclical, is currently in a protracted downturn and is significantly affected by many factors outside of its control. demand for diamond offshore's drilling services depends upon the level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices, worldwide demand for oil and gas and a variety of political and economic factors. the level of offshore drilling activity is adversely affected when operators reduce or defer new investment in offshore projects, reduce or suspend their drilling budgets or reallocate their drilling budgets away from offshore drilling in favor of other priorities, such as shale or other land-based projects. as a result, diamond offshore's business and the oil and gas industry in general are subject to cyclical fluctuations. as a result of the cyclical fluctuations in the market, there have been periods of lower demand, excess rig supply and lower dayrates, followed by periods of higher demand, shorter rig supply and higher dayrates. diamond offshore cannot predict the timing or duration of such fluctuations. periods of lower demand or excess rig supply, such as the current protracted downturn in diamond offshore's industry that is continuing and may continue for several more years, intensify the competition in the industry and often result in periods of lower utilization and lower dayrates. 23 table of contents during these periods, diamond offshore's rigs may not be able to obtain contracts for future work and may be idle for long periods of time or may be able to obtain work only under contracts with lower dayrates or less favorable terms. additionally, prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates (such as diamond offshore is currently experiencing) have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, the recognition of further impairment charges on certain of diamond offshore's drilling rigs if future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these rigs may not be recoverable. diamond offshore's industry is highly competitive, with an oversupply and intense price competition. the offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants, and such competitiveness may be exacerbated by the current protracted downturn in diamond offshore's industry. some of diamond offshore's competitors are larger companies, have larger or more technologically advanced fleets and have greater financial or other resources than it does. the drilling industry has experienced consolidation and may experience additional consolidation, which could create additional large competitors. drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. price is typically the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. as of the date of this report, there are approximately 240 floater rigs currently available to meet customer drilling needs in the offshore contract drilling market, and many of these rigs are not currently contracted and/or are cold stacked. although there have been over 135 floater rigs scrapped over the past six years, the market remains oversupplied as new rig construction, upgrades of existing drilling rigs, cancelation or termination of drilling contracts and established rigs coming off contract have contributed to the current oversupply, intensifying price competition. in addition, some shipyards own rigs recently constructed or under construction, which are not currently marketed, which, if acquired by diamond offshore or its competitors, would further exacerbate the oversupply of rigs. in addition, during industry downturns like the one diamond offshore is currently experiencing, rig operators may take lower dayrates and shorter contract durations to keep their rigs operational. diamond offshore can provide no assurance that its drilling contracts will not be terminated early or that its current backlog of contract drilling revenue will be ultimately realized. diamond offshore's customers may terminate their drilling contracts under certain circumstances, such as the destruction or loss of a drilling rig or suspension of drilling operations for a specified period of time as a result of a breakdown of major equipment, excessive downtime for repairs, failure to meet minimum performance criteria (including customer acceptance testing) or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the control of either party. in addition, some of diamond offshore's drilling contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract after specified notice periods, often by tendering contractually specified termination amounts, which may not fully compensate diamond offshore for the loss of the contract. in some cases, diamond offshore's drilling contracts may permit the customer to terminate the contract without cause, upon little or no notice or without making an early termination payment. during depressed market conditions, such as those currently in effect, certain customers have utilized, and may in the future utilize, such contract clauses to seek to renegotiate or terminate a drilling contract or claim that diamond offshore has breached provisions of its drilling contracts in order to avoid their obligations to diamond offshore under circumstances where diamond offshore believes it is in compliance with the contracts. additionally, because of depressed commodity prices, restricted credit markets, economic downturns, changes in priorities or strategy or other factors beyond diamond offshore's control, a customer may no longer want or need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower dayrate. for these reasons, customers have sought and may in the future seek to renegotiate the terms of diamond offshore's existing drilling contracts, terminate their contracts without justification or repudiate or otherwise fail to perform their obligations under the contracts. as a result of such contract renegotiations or terminations, diamond offshore's contract backlog has been and may in the future be adversely impacted, it might not recover any compensation (or any recovery it obtains may not fully compensate it for the loss of the contract) and it may be required to idle one or more rigs for an extended period of time. 24 table of contents diamond offshore may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts for its rigs. as of the date of this report, all of diamond offshore's current customer contracts will expire between 2020 and 2023. two of diamond offshore's contracts expire in 2020, six contracts expire in 2021 and two contracts expire in each of 2022 and 2023. some of diamond offshore's drilling rigs are not currently contracted for continuous utilization between contracts and are being actively marketed for these uncontracted periods. diamond offshore's ability to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts, will depend on various factors, including market conditions and the specific needs of its customers at such times. given the historically cyclical and highly competitive nature of the industry and the likelihood that the current protracted downturn in diamond offshore's industry continues, it may not be able to renew or replace the contracts or it may be required to renew or replace expiring contracts or obtain new contracts at dayrates that are below existing dayrates, or that have terms that are less favorable, including shorter durations, than existing contracts. moreover, diamond offshore may be unable to secure contracts for these rigs. failure to secure contracts for a rig may result in a decision to cold stack the rig, which puts the rig at risk for impairment and may competitively disadvantage the rig as many customers during the current protracted market downturn have expressed a preference for ready or warm stacked rigs over cold stacked rigs. if a decision is made to cold stack a rig, diamond offshore's operating costs for the rig are typically reduced, however, it will incur additional costs associated with cold stacking the rig (particularly if it cold stacks a newer rig, such as a drillship or other dp semisubmersible rig, for which cold stacking costs are typically substantially higher than for an older non-dp rig). in addition, the costs to reactivate a cold stacked rig may be substantial. diamond offshore's debt levels may limit its liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. diamond offshore's business is highly capital intensive and dependent on having sufficient cash flow and/or available sources of financing in order to fund its capital expenditure requirements. during 2019, diamond offshore's cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities decreased an aggregate $301 million and during 2018 increased an aggregate $74 million. based on its cash flow forecast, as of the date of this report, diamond offshore expects to generate aggregate negative cash flows for 2020. if market conditions do not improve, it could continue to generate aggregate negative cash flows in future periods. as of december 31, 2019, diamond offshore had outstanding $2.0 billion of senior notes, maturing at various times from 2023 through 2043. as of february 7, 2020, diamond offshore had no outstanding borrowings under its $225 million revolving credit facility maturing in october of 2020, which it may have difficulty replacing upon maturity, or its $950 million revolving credit facility maturing in october of 2023. diamond offshore expects to begin to utilize borrowing under its two credit agreements in the first half of 2020 to meet its liquidity requirements and anticipates ending 2020 with a drawn balance under its $950 million credit agreement. as of february 7, 2020, diamond offshore had approximately $1.2 billion available under such credit facilities in the aggregate, subject to their respective terms, to meet its short term liquidity requirements. diamond offshore's ability to meet its debt service obligations is dependent upon its future performance, which is unpredictable and dependent on its ability to manage through the current protracted industry downturn. diamond offshore's levels of indebtedness could have negative consequences to diamond offshore, including: it may have difficulty satisfying its obligations with respect to its outstanding debt and, given the challenges to its business presented by the protracted industry downturn, its operational obligations; it may have difficulty obtaining financing, including refinancing for its existing indebtedness upon maturity in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; it may need to use a substantial portion of available cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on its debt, which would reduce the amount of money available to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and other general corporate or business activities; vulnerability to the effects of general adverse economic conditions, such as the continuing protracted industry downturn, and adverse operating results, including negative cash flows, could increase; 25 table of contents flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and in its industry in general could be limited; it may not have the ability to pursue business opportunities that become available; the amount of debt and the amount it must pay to service its debt obligations could place diamond offshore at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and customers may react adversely to its significant debt level and seek alternative service providers. in addition, diamond offshore's failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in its debt instruments could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on its business. among other things, these covenants require diamond offshore to maintain a specified ratio of its consolidated indebtedness to total capitalization, a specified ratio of the aggregate value of certain of its rigs to the aggregate value of substantially all rigs owned by diamond offshore, a specified ratio of the aggregate value of certain of its marketed rigs to the sum of the commitments under the $950 million revolving credit facility plus certain outstanding loans, letter of credit exposures and other indebtedness, limit the ability of its subsidiaries to incur debt and require diamond offshore to make a cash collateral deposit if a change in control occurs, as defined in each respective credit facility, within 90 days of the change in control event. the amount of such cash collateral deposit is based on its credit ratings within 90 days of such change in control event. in 2019, s&amp;p downgraded diamond offshore's corporate and senior unsecured notes credit rating to ccc+ from b and the rating outlook changed to stable from negative. diamond offshore's current corporate credit rating from moody's is b2 and its current senior unsecured notes credit rating from moody's is b3. the rating outlook from moody's is negative. these credit ratings are below investment grade and could raise diamond offshore's cost of financing. consequently, diamond offshore may not be able to issue additional debt in amounts and/or with terms that it considers to be reasonable. these ratings could limit diamond offshore's ability to pursue other business opportunities or to refinance its indebtedness as it matures. diamond offshore's revolving credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, based on its corporate credit rating and market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, diamond offshore's cost to borrow under its revolving credit facilities may also increase. although diamond offshore may employ hedging strategies such that a portion of the aggregate principal amount outstanding under this credit facilities would effectively carry a fixed rate of interest, any hedging arrangement put in place may not offer complete protection from this risk. diamond offshore's consolidated effective income tax rate may vary substantially from one reporting period to another. diamond offshore's consolidated effective income tax rate is impacted by the mix between its domestic and international pre-tax earnings or losses, as well as the mix of the international tax jurisdictions in which it operates. diamond offshore cannot provide any assurance as to what its consolidated effective income tax rate will be in the future due to, among other factors, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of its business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as potential changes in u.s. and foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, changes in the administrative practices and precedents of tax authorities or any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts diamond offshore has provided for income taxes or deferred tax assets and liabilities in its consolidated financial statements. this variability may cause its consolidated effective income tax rate to vary substantially from one reporting period to another. diamond offshore's contract drilling expense includes fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in rig utilization and dayrates. diamond offshore's contract drilling expense includes all direct and indirect costs associated with the operation, maintenance and support of its drilling equipment, which is often not affected by changes in dayrates and utilization. during periods of reduced revenue and/or activity (like the current protracted industry downturn), certain of diamond offshore's fixed costs will not decline and often it may incur additional operating costs, such as fuel and catering 26 table of contents costs, for which the customer generally reimburses diamond offshore when a rig is under contract. during times of reduced dayrates and utilization, like the current protracted industry downturn, reductions in costs may not be immediate as diamond offshore may incur additional costs associated with cold stacking a rig (particularly if diamond offshore cold stacks a newer rig, such as a drillship or other dp semisubmersible rig, for which cold stacking costs are typically substantially higher than for an older non-dp rig), or it may not be able to fully reduce the cost of its support operations in a particular geographic region due to the need to support the remaining drilling rigs in that region. accordingly, a decline in revenue due to lower dayrates and/or utilization may not be offset by a corresponding decrease in contract drilling expense. contracts for diamond offshore's drilling rigs are generally fixed dayrate contracts, and increases in diamond offshore's operating costs could adversely affect the profitability of those contracts. diamond offshore's contracts for its drilling rigs generally provide for the payment of an agreed dayrate per rig operating day, although some contracts do provide for a limited escalation in dayrate due to increased operating costs it incurs on the project. over the term of a drilling contract, diamond offshore's operating costs may fluctuate due to events beyond its control. in addition, equipment repair and maintenance expenses vary depending on the type of activity the rig is performing, the age and condition of the equipment and general market factors impacting relevant parts, components and services. the gross margin that diamond offshore realizes on these fixed dayrate contracts will fluctuate based on variations in its operating costs over the terms of the contracts. in addition, for contracts with dayrate escalation clauses, diamond offshore may not be able to fully recover increased or unforeseen costs from its customers. diamond offshore is subject to extensive domestic and international laws and regulations that could significantly limit its business activities and revenues and increase its costs. certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the u.s. government or other governmental or international authorities. these restrictions, sanctions and embargoes may prohibit or limit diamond offshore from participating in certain business activities in those countries. diamond offshore's operations are also subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties and the protection of the environment. laws and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly stringent, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject diamond offshore to civil or criminal enforcement action, for which it may not receive contractual indemnification or have insurance coverage, and could result in the issuance of injunctions restricting some or all of diamond offshore's activities in the affected areas. diamond offshore may be required to make significant expenditures for additional capital equipment or inspections and recertifications to comply with existing or new governmental laws and regulations. it is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to diamond offshore's operating costs or result in a substantial reduction in revenues associated with downtime required to install such equipment, or may otherwise significantly limit drilling activity. in addition, these laws and regulations require diamond offshore to perform certain regulatory inspections, which it refers to as a special survey. for most of diamond offshore's rigs, these special surveys are due every five years, although the inspection interval for its north sea rigs is two and one half years. diamond offshore's operations are negatively impacted during these special surveys. these special surveys are generally performed in a shipyard and require scheduled downtime, which can negatively impact operating revenue. operating expenses increase as a result of these special surveys due to the cost to mobilize the rigs to a shipyard and inspection, repair and maintenance costs. repair and maintenance activities may result from the special survey or may have been previously planned to take place during this mandatory downtime. the number of rigs undergoing a special survey will vary from year to year, as well as from quarter to quarter. diamond offshore's business may also be negatively impacted by intermediate surveys, which are performed at interim periods between special surveys. although an intermediate survey normally does not require shipyard time, the survey may require some downtime for the rig. diamond offshore can provide no assurance as to the exact timing and/or duration of downtime and/or the costs or lost revenues associated with regulatory inspections, planned rig mobilizations and other shipyard projects. 27 table of contents in addition, the offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration industry and, accordingly, can be affected by changes in tax and other laws relating to the energy business generally. governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry. the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and gas for economic, environmental or other reasons could limit drilling opportunities. diamond offshore's business involves numerous operating hazards which could expose it to significant losses and significant damage claims. diamond offshore is not fully insured against all of these risks and its contractual indemnity provisions may not fully protect diamond offshore. diamond offshore's operations are subject to the significant hazards inherent in drilling for oil and gas offshore, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, unstable or faulty sea floor conditions, fires and natural disasters such as hurricanes. the occurrence of any of these types of events could result in the suspension of drilling operations, damage to or destruction of the equipment involved and injury or death to rig personnel and damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations, oil spillage, oil leaks, well blowouts and extensive uncontrolled fires, any of which could cause significant environmental damage. in addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to marine hazards, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of suppliers or subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. any of the foregoing events could result in significant damage or loss to diamond offshore's properties and assets or the properties and assets of others, injury or death to rig personnel or others, significant loss of revenues and significant damage claims against diamond offshore. diamond offshore's drilling contracts with its customers provide for varying levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities between its customers and diamond offshore with respect to the hazards and risks inherent in, and damages or losses arising out of, its operations, and diamond offshore may not be fully protected. diamond offshore's contracts are individually negotiated, and the levels of indemnity and allocation of liabilities in them can vary from contract to contract depending on market conditions, particular customer requirements and other factors existing at the time a contract is negotiated. additionally, the enforceability of indemnification provisions in diamond offshore's contracts may be limited or prohibited by applicable law or such provisions may not be enforced by courts having jurisdiction, and diamond offshore could be held liable for substantial losses or damages and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities. the indemnification provisions in diamond offshore's contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and the laws or courts of certain jurisdictions may enforce such provisions while other laws or courts may find them to be unenforceable. the law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to diamond offshore's contracts. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore's contracts with its customers, suppliers and subcontractors will fully protect it against all hazards and risks inherent in its operations. there can also be no assurance that those parties with contractual obligations to indemnify diamond offshore will be financially able to do so or will otherwise honor their contractual obligations. diamond offshore maintains liability insurance, which generally includes coverage for environmental damage; however, because of contractual provisions and policy limits, diamond offshore's insurance coverage may not adequately cover its losses and claim costs. in addition, certain risks and contingencies related to pollution, reservoir damage and environmental risks are generally not fully insurable. also, diamond offshore does not typically purchase loss-of-hire insurance to cover lost revenues when a rig is unable to work. there can be no assurance that diamond offshore will continue to carry the insurance it currently maintains, that its insurance will cover all types of losses or that it will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers to be reasonable or that diamond offshore will be able to obtain insurance against some risks. if an accident or other event occurs that exceeds diamond offshore's insurance coverage limits or is not an insurable event under its insurance policies, or is not fully covered by contractual indemnity, it could result in significant loss to diamond offshore. 28 table of contents significant portions of diamond offshore's operations are conducted outside the united states and involve additional risks not associated with united states domestic operations. diamond offshore's operations outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 47%, 41% and 58% of its total consolidated revenues for 2019, 2018 and 2017 and include, or have included, operations in south america, australia and southeast asia, europe and mexico. because diamond offshore operates in various regions throughout the world, it is exposed to a variety of risks inherent in international operations, including risks of war or conflicts, political and economic instability and disruption, civil disturbance, acts of piracy, terrorism or other assaults on property or personnel, corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the u.s. government may consider to be state sponsors of terrorism), changes in global monetary and trade policies, laws and regulations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions on currency exchange, controls over the repatriation of income or capital and other risks. diamond offshore may not have insurance coverage for these risks, or it may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for such events at reasonable rates. diamond offshore's operations may become restricted, disrupted or prohibited in any country in which any of these risks occur. in 2016, the u.k. approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit . the u.k. officially left the e.u., on january 31, 2020. following its departure, the u.k. entered into a transition period that is scheduled to last until december 31, 2020 during which period of time the u.k.'s trading relationship with the e.u. is expected to remain largely the same while the two parties negotiate a trade agreement as well as other aspects of the u.k.'s relationship with the e.u. the impact of brexit and the future relationship between the u.k. and the e.u. are uncertain for companies that do business in the u.k. and the overall global economy. approximately 17% of diamond offshore's total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019 were generated in the u.k. brexit, or similar events in other jurisdictions, could depress economic activity or impact global markets, including foreign exchange and securities markets, which may have an adverse impact on diamond offshore's business as a result of changes in currency exchange rates, tariffs, treaties and other regulatory matters. diamond offshore is also subject to the regulations of the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and other u.s. laws and regulations governing its international operations in addition to domestic and international anti-bribery laws and sanctions, trade laws and regulations, customs laws and regulations and other restrictions imposed by other governmental or international authorities. in addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which diamond offshore operates, including laws and regulations relating to the equipping and operation of drilling rigs, import-export quotas or other trade barriers, repatriation of foreign earnings or capital, oil and gas exploration and development, local content requirements, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel and use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. risks related to us and our subsidiary, boardwalk pipelines boardwalk pipelines' natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc, including rules and regulations related to the rates it can charge for its services and its ability to construct or abandon facilities. boardwalk pipelines may not be able to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including earning a reasonable return. boardwalk pipelines' natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to extensive regulation by the ferc, including the types, rates and terms of services boardwalk pipelines may offer to its customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities and recordkeeping and relationships with affiliated companies. an adverse ferc action in any of these areas could affect boardwalk pipelines' ability to compete for business, construct new facilities, offer new services or recover the full cost of operating its pipelines. this regulatory oversight can result in longer lead times to develop and complete any future project than competitors that are not subject to the ferc's regulations. the ferc can also deny boardwalk pipelines the right to abandon certain facilities from service. 29 table of contents the ferc also regulates the rates boardwalk pipelines can charge for its natural gas transportation and storage operations. for cost-based services, the ferc establishes both the maximum and minimum rates boardwalk pipelines can charge. the basic elements that the ferc considers are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. boardwalk pipelines may not be able to recover all its costs, including certain costs associated with pipeline integrity, through existing or future rates. the ferc and/or boardwalk pipelines' customers could challenge the maximum applicable rates that any of its regulated pipelines are allowed to charge in accordance with section 5 of the nga. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 and the revised policy statement that was issued by the ferc in 2018 may increase the likelihood of such a challenge. pending legislation that would amend section 5 of the nga to add refund provisions could increase the likelihood of such a challenge. if such a challenge is successful for any of boardwalk pipelines' pipelines, the revenues associated with transportation and storage services the pipeline provides pursuant to cost-of-service rates could materially decrease in the future, which would adversely affect the revenues on that pipeline going forward. legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more prescriptive compliance activities, substantial changes to existing integrity management programs or withdrawal of regulatory waivers could subject boardwalk pipelines to increased capital and operating costs and operational delays. boardwalk pipelines' interstate pipelines are subject to regulation by phmsa, which is part of the dot. phmsa regulates the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, and maintenance of existing interstate natural gas and ngls pipeline facilities. phmsa regulation currently requires pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including frequent inspections, correction of certain identified anomalies and other measures to promote pipeline safety in hcas, mcas, class 3 and 4 areas, as well as areas unusually sensitive to environmental damage and commercially navigable waterways. states have jurisdiction over certain of boardwalk pipelines' intrastate pipelines and have adopted regulations similar to existing phmsa regulations. state regulations may impose more stringent requirements than found under federal law that affect boardwalk pipelines' intrastate operations. compliance with these rules over time generally has resulted in an overall increase in maintenance costs. the imposition of new or more stringent pipeline safety rules applicable to natural gas or ngl pipelines, or any issuance or reinterpretation of guidance from phmsa or any state agencies with respect thereto could cause boardwalk pipelines to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in boardwalk pipelines incurring increased capital and operating costs, experiencing operational delays and suffering potential adverse impacts to its operations or ability to reliably serve its customers. requirements that are imposed under the 2011 act or the more recent 2016 act may also increase boardwalk pipelines' capital and operating costs or impact the operation of its pipelines. for example, in 2016, phmsa published a proposed rulemaking that would impose new or more stringent requirements for certain natural gas pipelines including, among other things, expanding certain of phmsa's current regulatory safety programs for natural gas lines in newly defined mcas that do not qualify as hcas and requiring maop validation through re-verification of all historical records for pipelines in service, which may require natural gas pipelines installed before 1970 (previously excluded from certain pressure testing obligations) to be pressure tested. new pipeline safety legislation is expected to be proposed and finalized in 2020 that will reauthorize phmsa pipeline safety programs, which under the 2016 act expired at the end of september of 2019. any such new pipeline safety legislation or implementing regulations could impose more stringent or costly compliance obligations on boardwalk pipelines and could require it to pursue additional capital projects or conduct integrity or maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in boardwalk pipelines incurring increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on its costs of providing transportation services. boardwalk pipelines has entered into certain firm transportation contracts with shippers on certain of its expansion projects that utilize the design capacity of certain of its pipeline assets, based upon the authority boardwalk pipelines received from phmsa to operate those pipelines at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline's smys under issued permits with specific conditions. phmsa retains discretion to withdraw or modify this authority. if phmsa were to withdraw or materially modify such authority, it could affect boardwalk pipelines' ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipeline assets and it could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. 30 table of contents boardwalk pipelines' actual construction and development costs could exceed its forecasts, its anticipated cash flow from construction and development projects will not be immediate and its construction and development projects may not be completed on time or at all. boardwalk pipelines has been and is currently engaged in several construction projects involving its existing assets and the construction of new facilities for which it has expended or will expend significant capital. boardwalk pipelines expects to continue to engage in the construction of additional growth projects and modifications of its system. when boardwalk pipelines builds a new pipeline or expands or modifies an existing facility, the design, construction and development occurs over an extended period of time, and it will not receive any revenue or cash flow from that project until after it is placed into commercial service. on boardwalk pipelines' interstate pipelines there are several years between when the project is announced and when customers begin using the new facilities. during this period, boardwalk pipelines spends capital and incurs costs without receiving any of the financial benefits associated with the projects. the construction of new assets involves regulatory (federal, state and local), landowner opposition, environmental, activist, legal, political, materials and labor costs, as well as operational and other risks that are difficult to predict and some are beyond boardwalk pipelines' control. a project may not be completed on time or at all due to a variety of factors, may be impacted by significant cost overruns or may be materially changed prior to completion as a result of developments or circumstances that boardwalk pipelines is not aware of when it commits to the project. any of these events could result in material unexpected costs or have a material adverse effect on boardwalk pipelines' ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its growth projects. boardwalk pipelines' and its customers' operations are subject to a series of risks arising out of the threat of climate change that could result in increased operating costs, limit the areas in which fossil fuels are produced and reduce demand for the services boardwalk pipelines provides. the threat of climate change continues to attract considerable attention in the u.s. and in foreign countries. numerous proposals have been made and could continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit existing emissions of greenhouse gases ( ghgs ) as well as to restrict or eliminate such future emissions, which makes boardwalk pipelines operations as well as the operations of its fossil fuel producer customers subject to a series of regulatory, political, litigation and financial risks associated with the production and processing of fossil fuels and emission of ghgs. in the u.s., no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented at the federal level. with the u.s. supreme court finding that ghg emissions constitute a pollutant under the caa, the environmental protection agency has adopted rules that, among other things, establish construction and operating permit reviews for ghg emissions from certain large stationary sources, require the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions from certain natural gas system sources in the u.s., implement new source performance standards directing the reduction of methane from certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the natural gas sector, and together with the dot, implement ghg emissions limits on vehicles manufactured for operation in the u.s. various states and groups of states have adopted or are considering adopting legislation, regulations or other regulatory initiatives that are focused on such areas as ghg cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, reporting and tracking programs and restriction of emissions. at the international level, the non-binding paris agreement requests that nations limit their ghg emissions through individually-determined reduction goals every five years after 2020, although the u.s. has announced its withdrawal from such agreement, effective november 4, 2020. governmental, scientific and public concern over the threat of climate change arising from ghg emissions has resulted in increasing political risks in the u.s., including climate change related pledges made by certain candidates seeking the presidential office in 2020. declarations made by one or more candidates running for the democratic nomination for president include threats to take actions banning hydraulic fracturing of crude oil and natural gas wells and banning new leases for production of minerals on federal properties, including onshore lands and offshore waters. a new presidential administration could also pursue the imposition of more restrictive requirements for the establishment of pipeline infrastructure or the permitting of lng export facilities, as well as the reversal of the u.s.' withdrawal from the paris agreement. litigation risks are also increasing, as a number of cities and other local governments have sought to bring suit against fossil fuel producer companies in state or federal court, alleging, that such companies created public nuisances by producing fuels that contributed to global warming effects, such as rising sea levels, and are responsible for roadway and infrastructure damages as a result, or alleging that the companies have been aware of the adverse effects of climate change for some time but defrauded their investors by failing to adequately disclose those impacts. 31 table of contents there are also increasing financial risks for fossil fuel energy companies as investors in fossil fuel energy companies become increasingly concerned about the potential effects of climate change and may elect in the future to shift some or all of their investments into non-energy related sectors. institutional lenders who provide financing to fossil fuel energy companies also have become more attentive to sustainable lending practices and some of them may elect not to provide funding for fossil fuel energy companies. additionally, institutional lenders have been the subject of intensive lobbying efforts in recent years, oftentimes public in nature, by environmental activists, proponents of the international paris agreement and foreign citizenry concerned about climate change not to provide funding for fossil fuel energy companies. this could make it more difficult for boardwalk pipelines to secure funding for exploration and production or midstream energy business activities. the adoption and implementation of new or more stringent international, federal or state legislation, regulations or other regulatory initiatives that impose more stringent standards for ghg emissions from the oil and gas sector or otherwise restrict the areas in which this sector may produce fossil fuels or generate ghg emissions could result in increased costs of compliance or costs of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for fossil fuels, which could reduce demand for boardwalk pipelines transportation and storage services. political, litigation and financial risks may result in its fossil fuel producer customers restricting or canceling production activities, incurring liability for infrastructure damages as a result of climatic changes or impairing their ability to continue to operate in an economic manner, which also could reduce demand for boardwalk pipelines' services. the price differentials between natural gas supplies and market demand for natural gas have reduced the transportation rates that boardwalk pipelines can charge on certain portions of its pipeline systems. each year a portion of boardwalk pipelines firm natural gas transportation contracts expire and need to be replaced or renewed. over the past several years, as a result of market conditions, boardwalk pipelines has renewed some expiring contracts at lower rates or for shorter terms than in the past. the transportation rates boardwalk pipelines is able to charge customers are heavily influenced by market trends (both short and longer term), including the available supply, geographical location of natural gas production, the competition between producing basins, competition with other pipelines for supply and markets, the demand for gas by end-users such as power plants, petrochemical facilities and lng export facilities and the price differentials between the gas supplies and the market demand for the gas (basis differentials). market conditions have resulted in a sustained narrowing of basis differentials on certain portions of boardwalk pipelines' pipeline system, which has reduced transportation rates that can be charged in the affected areas and adversely affected the contract terms boardwalk pipelines can secure from its customers for available transportation capacity and for contracts being renewed or replaced. the prevailing market conditions may also lead some of its customers to seek to renegotiate existing contracts to terms that are less attractive to boardwalk pipelines; for example, seeking a current price reduction in exchange for an extension of the contract term. boardwalk pipelines expects these market conditions to continue. boardwalk pipelines is exposed to credit risk relating to default or bankruptcy by its customers. credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the default by a customer of its contractual obligations or the customer filing bankruptcy. boardwalk pipelines has credit risk with both its existing customers and those supporting its growth projects. credit risk exists in relation to boardwalk pipelines' growth projects, both because foundation customers make long term firm capacity commitments to boardwalk pipelines for such projects and certain of those foundation customers agree to provide credit support as construction for such projects progresses. if a customer fails to post the required credit support during the growth project process, overall returns on the project may be reduced to the extent an adjustment to the scope of the project results or boardwalk pipelines is unable to replace the defaulting customer. boardwalk pipelines recently had a customer declare bankruptcy for which it was able to use the credit support to cover a portion of the customer's remaining long term commitment. boardwalk pipelines' credit exposure also includes receivables for services provided, future performance under firm agreements and volumes of gas owed by customers for imbalances or gas loaned by boardwalk pipelines to them under certain nns and parking and lending ( pal ) services. 32 table of contents changes in energy prices, including natural gas, oil and ngls, impact the supply of and demand for those commodities, which impact boardwalk pipelines' business. boardwalk pipelines' customers, especially producers, are directly impacted by changes in commodity prices. the prices of natural gas, oil and ngls fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors, including for natural gas the realization of potential lng exports and demand growth within the power generation market. the declines in the levels of natural gas, oil and ngls prices experienced in recent history have adversely affected the businesses of boardwalk pipelines' producer customers and reduced the demand for boardwalk pipelines' services and could result in defaults or the non-renewal of boardwalk pipelines' contracted capacity when existing contracts expire. future increases in the price of natural gas and ngls could make alternative energy and feedstock sources more competitive and reduce demand for natural gas and ngls. a reduced level of demand for natural gas and ngls could reduce the utilization of capacity on boardwalk pipelines' systems and reduce the demand of its services. boardwalk pipelines' substantial indebtedness could affect its ability to meet its obligations and may otherwise restrict its activities. boardwalk pipelines has a significant amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. boardwalk pipelines' inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipelines' substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit boardwalk pipelines' ability to borrow money for its working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other general business activities; increase boardwalk pipelines' vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit boardwalk pipelines' ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing its business through acquisitions. in addition, the credit agreements governing boardwalk pipelines' current indebtedness contain, and any future debt instruments would likely contain, financial or other restrictive covenants, which impose significant operating and financial restrictions. as a result of these covenants, boardwalk pipelines could be limited in the manner in which it conducts its business and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance its future operations or capital needs. furthermore, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on its business. boardwalk pipelines will be permitted, under its revolving credit facility and the indentures governing its notes, to incur additional debt, subject to certain limitations under its revolving credit facility and, in the case of unsecured debt, under the indentures governing the notes. if boardwalk pipelines incurs additional debt, its increased leverage could also result in the consequences described above. limited access to the debt markets and increases in interest rates could adversely affect boardwalk pipelines' business. boardwalk pipelines anticipates funding its capital spending requirements through its available financing options, including cash generated from operations and borrowings under its revolving credit facility. changes in the debt markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and an increase in interest rates, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. this may affect its ability to raise needed funding and reduce the amount of cash available to fund its operations or growth projects. if the debt markets were not available, it is not certain if other adequate financing options would be available to boardwalk pipelines on terms and conditions that it would find acceptable. 33 table of contents any disruption in the debt markets could require boardwalk pipelines to take additional measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until it can arrange alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs. such measures could include reducing or delaying business activities, reducing its operations to lower expenses and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. boardwalk pipelines may be unable to execute its growth strategy or take advantage of certain business opportunities. boardwalk pipelines does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could result in disruptions to its operations. boardwalk pipelines does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and boardwalk pipeline is subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. boardwalk pipelines obtains the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. boardwalk pipelines cannot guarantee that it will always be able to renew, when necessary, existing rights-of-way or obtain new rights-of-way without experiencing significant costs or experiencing landowner opposition. any loss of these land use rights with respect to the operation of boardwalk pipelines' pipelines and facilities, through its inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on its business. rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion could damage boardwalk pipelines' pipelines and the facilities that serve its customers, particularly along coastal waters and offshore in the gulf of mexico, which could adversely affect its operations and financial condition. boardwalk pipelines' pipeline operations along coastal waters and offshore in the gulf of mexico could be impacted by rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion. subsidence issues are also a concern for boardwalk pipelines' pipelines at major river crossings. rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion could cause serious damage to its pipelines, which could affect its ability to provide transportation services or result in leakage, migration, releases or spills from its operations to surface or subsurface soils, surface water, groundwater or offshore waters, which could result in liability, remedial obligations and/or otherwise have a negative impact on continued operations. such rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion processes could impact boardwalk pipelines' customers who operate along coastal waters or offshore in the gulf of mexico, and they may be unable to utilize boardwalk pipelines services. rising sea levels, subsidence and erosion could also expose boardwalk pipelines' operations to increased risks associated with severe weather conditions and other adverse events and conditions, such as hurricanes and flooding. as a result, boardwalk pipelines may incur significant costs to repair and preserve its pipeline infrastructure. such costs could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in recent years, local governments and landowners have filed lawsuits in louisiana against energy companies, alleging that their operations contributed to increased coastal rising seas and erosion and seeking substantial damages. boardwalk pipelines may not be successful in executing its strategy to grow and diversify its business. boardwalk pipelines relies primarily on the revenues generated from its natural gas transportation and storage services. negative developments in these services have significantly greater impact on boardwalk pipelines' financial condition and results of operations than if it maintained more diverse assets. boardwalk pipelines' ability to grow, diversify and increase cash flows will depend, in part, on its ability to expand its existing business lines and to close and execute on accretive acquisitions. boardwalk pipelines may not be successful in acquiring or developing such assets or may do so on terms that ultimately are not profitable. any such transactions involve potential risks that may include, among other things: the diversion of management's and employees' attention from other business concerns; inaccurate assumptions about volume, revenues and project costs, including potential synergies; a decrease in boardwalk pipelines' liquidity as a result of using available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the acquisition or project; 34 table of contents a significant increase in interest expense or financial leverage if it incurs additional debt to finance the acquisition or project; inaccurate assumptions about the overall costs of debt; an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the acquired business and assets or the developed assets; unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and changes in regulatory requirements or delays of regulatory approvals. additionally, acquisitions also contain the following risks: an inability to integrate successfully the businesses boardwalk pipelines acquires; the assumption of unknown liabilities for which it is not indemnified, for which its indemnity is inadequate or for which its insurance policies may exclude from coverage; limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller; and customer or key employee losses of an acquired business. boardwalk pipelines' ability to replace expiring gas storage contracts at attractive rates or on a long-term basis and to sell short-term services at attractive rates or at all are subject to market conditions. boardwalk pipelines owns and operates substantial natural gas storage facilities. the market for the storage and pal services that it offers is impacted by the factors and market conditions discussed above for boardwalk pipelines' transportation services, and is also impacted by natural gas price differentials between time periods, such as winter to summer (time period price spreads), and the volatility in time period price spreads. when market conditions cause a narrowing of time period price spreads and a decline in the price volatility of natural gas, these factors adversely impact the rates boardwalk pipelines can charge for its storage and pal services. boardwalk pipelines' operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which it may not be adequately insured. there are a variety of operating risks inherent in transporting and storing natural gas, ethylene and ngls, such as leaks and other forms of releases, explosions, fires, cyber-attacks and mechanical problems, which could have catastrophic consequences. additionally, the nature and location of boardwalk pipelines' business may make it susceptible to catastrophic losses from hurricanes or other named storms, particularly with regard to its assets in the gulf coast region, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, and other severe weather. any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of boardwalk pipelines' operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations and substantial financial losses. the location of pipelines in hcas, which includes populated areas, residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from some of these risks. boardwalk pipelines currently possesses property, business interruption, cyber threat and general liability insurance, but proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage boardwalk pipelines does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. 35 table of contents risks related to us and our subsidiary, loews hotels &amp; co loews hotels &amp; co's business may be adversely affected by various operating risks common to the hospitality industry, including competition, excess supply and dependence on business travel and tourism. loews hotels &amp; co owns and operates hotels which have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets. a typical office property, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provide a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. hotels, on the other hand, generate revenue from guests that typically stay at the hotel for only a few nights, which causes the room rate and occupancy levels at each hotel to change every day, and results in earnings that can be highly volatile. in addition, loews hotels &amp; co's properties are subject to various operating risks common to the hospitality industry, many of which are beyond loews hotels &amp; co's control, including: changes in general economic conditions, including the severity and duration of any downturn in the u.s. or global economy and financial markets; war, political conditions or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as the recent coronavirus; natural or man-made disasters; any material reduction or prolonged interruption of public utilities and services; decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending and cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business due to adverse economic conditions or otherwise; decreased need for business-related travel due to innovations in business-related technology; competition from other hotels and alternative accommodations, such as airbnb, in the markets in which loews hotels &amp; co operates; requirements for periodic capital reinvestment to maintain and upgrade hotels; increases in operating costs, including labor (such as from minimum wage increases), workers' compensation, benefits, insurance, food and beverage, commodity costs, energy and unanticipated costs resulting from force majeure events, due to inflation, new or different federal, state or local governmental regulations, including tariffs, and other factors that may not be offset by increased revenues; the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations; organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for loews hotels &amp; co's properties generally as a result of certain labor tactics; changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers, including with respect to the underlying attractions supporting loews hotels &amp; co's existing and under development immersive destination properties, such as the universal theme park for its orlando, florida properties, the stadiums in arlington, texas and st. louis, missouri for its live! by loews hotels and convention centers for properties in other markets; geographic concentration of operations and customers; shortages of desirable locations for development; and 36 table of contents relationships with third-party property owners, developers, landlords and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners and/or partners may terminate management or joint venture agreements. these factors, and the reputational repercussions of these factors, could adversely affect, and from time to time have adversely affected, individual hotels and hotels in particular regions. loews hotels &amp; co is exposed to the risks resulting from significant investments in owned and leased real estate, which could increase its costs, reduce its profits, limit its ability to respond to market conditions or restrict its growth strategy. loews hotels &amp; co's proportion of owned and leased properties, compared to the number of properties that it manages for third-party owners, is larger than that of some of its competitors. real estate ownership and leasing is subject to risks not applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: real estate, insurance, zoning, tax, environmental and eminent domain laws; the ongoing need for owner-funded capital improvements and expenditures to maintain or upgrade properties; risks associated with mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and the availability of replacement financing; risks associated with the possibility that cost increases will outpace revenue increases and that, in the event of an economic slowdown, a high proportion of fixed costs will make it difficult to reduce costs to the extent required to offset declining revenues; risks associated with real estate leases, including the possibility of rent increases and the inability to renew or extend upon favorable terms; risks associated with real estate condominiums, including the possibility of special assessments by condominiums loews hotels &amp; co does not control; fluctuations in real estate values and potential impairments in the value of loews hotels &amp; co's assets; and the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. the hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility. the hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. the periods during which loews hotels &amp; co's properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon location and the consumer base served. loews hotels &amp; co generally expects revenues and earnings to be lower in the third quarter of each year than in each of the other quarters. in addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. the seasonality and cyclicality of its industry may contribute to fluctuation in loews hotels &amp; co's results of operations and financial condition. loews hotels &amp; co operates in a highly competitive industry, both for customers and for acquisitions and developments of new properties. the hospitality industry is highly competitive. loews hotels &amp; co's properties compete with other hotels and alternative accommodations based on a number of factors, including room rates, quality of accommodations, service levels and amenities, location, brand affiliation, reputation and reservation systems. new hotels may be constructed and these additions to supply create new competitors, in some cases without corresponding increases in demand for hotel rooms. some of its competitors also have greater financial and marketing resources than loews hotels &amp; co. in addition, travelers can book stays on websites that facilitate the short-term rental of homes and apartments from owners, thereby providing an alternative to hotel rooms. 37 table of contents loews hotels &amp; co also competes for hotel acquisitions and development projects with entities that have similar investment objectives as it does. this competition could limit the number of suitable investment opportunities. it may also increase the bargaining power of loews hotels &amp; co's counterparties, making it more difficult for loews hotels &amp; co to acquire or develop new properties on attractive terms or on the terms contemplated in its business plan. any deterioration in the quality or reputation of loews hotels &amp; co's brands could have an adverse effect on its reputation and business. loews hotels &amp; co's brands and its reputation are among its most important assets. its ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of its brands and their associated reputation. if its brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable or lacking in consistency and quality, or its brands or reputation are otherwise harmed, loews hotels &amp; co may be unable to attract guests to its properties, and may further be unable to attract or retain joint venture partners or hotel owners. loews hotels &amp; co's reputation may also suffer as a result of negative publicity regarding its hotels, including as a result of social media reports, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity. the continued expansion of media and social media formats has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity and has made it more difficult to control and effectively manage negative publicity. loews hotels &amp; co's efforts to develop new properties and renovate existing properties could be delayed or become more expensive. loews hotels &amp; co from time to time renovates its properties and is currently expanding its portfolio through the ground-up construction of a number of new developments, including new properties in orlando, florida, kansas city, missouri, st. louis, missouri and coral gables, florida and in the future may similarly develop additional new properties. often these projects are undertaken with joint venture partners who may also serve as developer. these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials or unforeseeable site conditions) that may increase project costs; cause new development projects to not be completed by lender imposed required completion dates or subject loews hotels &amp; co to cancellation penalties for reservations accepted; obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand or negative project returns; governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; projects financed with construction debt are subject to interest rate risk as uncertain timing and amount of draws make effective hedging difficult to obtain; force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornados, hurricanes or floods; and design defects that could increase costs. additionally, developing new properties typically involves lengthy development periods during which significant amounts of capital must be funded before the properties begin to operate and generate revenue. if the cost of funding new development exceeds budgeted amounts, and/or the time period for development is longer than initially anticipated, loews hotels &amp; co's profits could be reduced. further, due to the lengthy development cycle, intervening adverse economic conditions in general and as they apply to loews hotels &amp; co and its development partners may alter or impede the development plans, thereby resulting in incremental costs or potential impairment charges. in addition, using multiple sources of capital to develop new properties reduces or eliminates the ability of loews hotels &amp; co to cease commenced projects if the overall economic environment conditions change. moreover, during the early stages of operations, charges related to interest expense and depreciation may substantially detract from, or even outweigh, the profitability of certain new property investments. 38 table of contents loews hotels &amp; co's properties are geographically concentrated, which exposes its business to the effects of regional events and occurrences. loews hotels &amp; co has a concentration of hotels in florida. specifically, as of december 31, 2019, seven hotels, representing 50% of rooms in its system, were located at universal orlando in orlando, florida and eight hotels, representing approximately 56% of rooms in its system, were located in florida. the concentration of hotels in one region or a limited number of markets may expose loews hotels &amp; co to risks of adverse economic and other developments that are greater than if its portfolio were more geographically diverse. these developments include regional economic downturns, a decline in the popularity of or access to area tourist attractions, such as theme parks, significant increases in the number of loews hotels &amp; co's competitors' hotels in these markets and potentially higher local property, sales and income taxes in the geographic markets in which it is concentrated. in addition, loews hotels &amp; co's properties in florida are subject to the effects of adverse acts of nature, such as hurricanes, strong winds and flooding, which have in the past caused damage to its hotels in florida, and which may in the future be intensified as a result of climate change, as well as outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases. the growth and use of alternative reservation channels adversely affects loews hotels &amp; co's business. a significant percentage of hotel rooms for guests at loews hotels &amp; co's properties is booked through internet travel and other intermediaries. in most cases, loews hotels &amp; co has agreements with such intermediaries and pays them commissions and/or fees for sales of its rooms through their systems. if such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions or fees, reduced room rates or other significant concessions from loews hotels &amp; co. there can be no assurance that loews hotels &amp; co will be able to negotiate such agreements in the future with terms as favorable as those that exist today. moreover, these intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites and other outlets. as a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries' offered brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to loews hotels &amp; co's brands. under certain circumstances, loews hotels &amp; co's insurance coverage may not cover all possible losses, and it may not be able to renew its insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. although loews hotels &amp; co maintains various property, casualty and other insurance policies, proceeds from such insurance coverage may not be adequate for all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. moreover, such insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and terms. the insurance coverage loews hotels &amp; co does obtain may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain events, hazards or all potential losses. labor shortages could restrict loews hotels &amp; co's ability to operate its properties or grow its business or result in increased labor costs that could reduce its profits. loews hotels &amp; co's properties are staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week by thousands of employees. if it is unable to attract, retain, train and engage skilled employees, its ability to manage and staff its properties adequately could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. staffing shortages could also hinder its ability to grow and expand its business. because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at its properties, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase its labor costs. risks related to us and our subsidiary, altium packaging altium packaging's substantial indebtedness could affect its ability to meet its obligations and may otherwise restrict its activities. altium packaging has a significant amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. its inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on its business. altium packaging's substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: 39 table of contents limit its ability to borrow money for its working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; increase its vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit its ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing its business through acquisitions. in addition, the credit agreements governing its current indebtedness contain, and any future debt instruments would likely contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, which impose significant operating and financial restrictions on it. as a result of these covenants, altium packaging could be limited in the manner in which it conducts its business and may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. furthermore, a failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on altium packaging. fluctuations in raw material prices and raw material availability may affect altium packaging's results. to produce its products, altium packaging uses large quantities of plastic resins and recycled plastic materials. it faces the risk that its access to these raw materials may be interrupted or that it may not be able to purchase these raw materials at prices that are acceptable to it. in general, altium packaging does not have long-term supply contracts with its suppliers, and its purchases of raw materials are subject to market price volatility. although altium packaging generally is able to pass changes in the prices of raw materials through to its customers over a period of time, it may not always be able to do so or there may be a lag between when its costs increase and when it passes those costs through to its customers. it may not be able to pass through all future raw material price increases in a timely manner or at all due to competitive pressures. in addition, a sustained increase in resin and recycled plastic prices, relative to alternative packaging materials, would make plastic containers less economical for its customers and could result in reductions in the use of plastic containers. any limitation on its ability to procure its primary raw materials or to pass through price increases in such materials on a timely basis could negatively affect altium packaging. altium packaging's customers may increase their self-manufacturing. increased self-manufacturing by altium packaging's customers may have a material adverse impact on its sales volume and financial results. altium packaging believes that its customers may engage in self-manufacturing over time at locations where transportation costs are high, and where low complexity and available space to install blow molding equipment exist. risks related to us and our subsidiaries generally in addition to the specific risks and uncertainties faced by our subsidiaries, as discussed above, we and all of our subsidiaries face additional risks and uncertainties described below. acts of terrorism could harm us and our subsidiaries. terrorist attacks and the continued threat of terrorism in the united states or abroad, the continuation or escalation of existing armed hostilities or the outbreak of additional hostilities, including military and other action by the united states and its allies, could have a significant impact on us and the assets and businesses of our subsidiaries. cna issues coverages that are exposed to risk of loss from an act of terrorism. terrorist acts or the threat of terrorism could also result in increased political, economic and financial market instability, a decline in energy consumption and volatility in the price of oil and gas, which could affect the market for diamond offshore's drilling services and boardwalk pipelines' transportation and storage services. in addition, future terrorist attacks could lead to reductions in business travel and tourism which could harm loews hotels. while our subsidiaries take steps that they believe are appropriate to secure their assets, there is no assurance that they can completely secure them against a terrorist attack or obtain adequate insurance coverage for terrorist acts at reasonable rates. 40 table of contents changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries operate could adversely impact us. changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, regulations or treaties applicable to us or our subsidiaries or changes in the interpretation or enforcement thereof could materially and adversely impact our and our subsidiaries' tax liability, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including the amount of cash our subsidiaries have available to distribute to their shareholders, including us. other potential tax law changes, including further modification of the federal corporate tax rate, the taxation of interest from municipal bonds (and thus the rate at which cna discounts certain reserves) or foreign earnings could have such material adverse effects. our subsidiaries face significant risks related to compliance with environmental laws. our subsidiaries have extensive obligations and financial exposure related to compliance with federal, state, local, foreign and international environmental laws, including those relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal, removal or clean up of hazardous wastes and other activities relating to the protection of the environment. many of such laws have become increasingly stringent in recent years and may in some cases impose strict liability, which could be substantial, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of that person. for example, diamond offshore could be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with oil spills related to its operations, including for conduct of or conditions caused by others. boardwalk pipelines is also subject to environmental laws and regulations, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which it disposes of waste, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination resulting from a spill or other release and requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. in addition, altium packaging may be adversely affected by laws or regulations concerning environmental matters that increase the cost of producing, or otherwise adversely affect the demand for, plastic products. further, existing environmental laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof may be amended and new laws may be adopted in the future. failures or interruptions in or breaches to our or our subsidiaries' computer systems could materially and adversely affect our or our subsidiaries' operations. we and our subsidiaries are dependent upon information technologies, computer systems and networks, including those maintained by us and our subsidiaries and those maintained and provided to us and our subsidiaries by third parties (for example, software-as-a-service and cloud solutions), to conduct operations and are reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our and their businesses. we and our subsidiaries are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our and their businesses. any failure of our or our subsidiaries' computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. computer, telecommunications and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, fires, utility outages, theft, design defects, human error or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. in addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called cyber attacks on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. in particular, the u.s. government has issued public warnings that indicate energy assets may be specific targets of cyber attacks, which can have catastrophic consequences and there have also been reports that hotel chains, among other consumer-facing businesses, have been subject to various cyber attacks targeting payment card and other sensitive consumer information. breaches of our and our subsidiaries' computer security infrastructure can result from actions by our employees, vendors, third party administrators or by unknown third parties, and may disrupt our or their operations, cause significant damage to our or their assets and surrounding areas, cause loss of life or serious bodily injury and impact our or their data framework or cause a failure to protect personal information of customers or employees. the foregoing risks relating to disruption of service, interruption of operations and data loss could impact our and our subsidiaries' ability to timely perform critical business functions, resulting in disruption or deterioration in our and our subsidiaries' operations and business and expose us and our subsidiaries to monetary and reputational damages. in addition, potential exposures include substantially increased compliance costs and required computer system upgrades and security related investments. the breach of confidential information also could give rise to legal liability and regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations, both in the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. 41 table of contents some of our subsidiaries' customer bases are concentrated. some of our subsidiaries' customer bases are concentrated. for instance, during 2019, two of diamond offshore's customers in the gulf of mexico and diamond offshore's three largest customers accounted for 50% and an aggregate of 69% of its annual total consolidated revenues. in addition, the number of customers that it has performed services for declined from 35 in 2014 to 12 in 2019. as of january 1, 2020, diamond offshore's contracted backlog was an aggregate $1.6 billion of which 43%, 44% and 24% is attributable to its operations in the gulf of mexico for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022, from three customers. for boardwalk pipelines, for 2019, no customer comprised more than 10% or more of its operating revenues. however, as of december 31, 2019, the top ten customers holding future capacity on its pipelines under firm agreements comprised approximately 37% of its future revenues. altium packaging also depends on several large customers. the loss of or other problem with a significant customer could have a material adverse impact on these subsidiaries' businesses and our financial results. loss of key vendor relationships or issues relating to the transitioning of vendor relationships could result in a materially adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries' operations. we and our subsidiaries rely on products, equipment and services provided by many third party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers in the united states and abroad, which exposes us and them to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. these include, for example, vendors of computer hardware, software and services, as well as other critical materials and services (including, in the case of cna, claims administrators performing significant claims administration and adjudication functions). certain products, equipment and services may be available from a limited number of sources. if one or more key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products, equipment or services at the requisite level for any reason, or fails to protect our proprietary information, including in some cases personal information of employees, customers or hotel guests, we and our subsidiaries may experience a material adverse effect on our or their business, operations and reputation. we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of the long-lived assets and goodwill of our subsidiaries. our subsidiaries regularly evaluate their long-lived assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. most notably, we could incur impairment charges related to the carrying value of offshore drilling equipment at diamond offshore, pipeline and storage assets at boardwalk pipelines and hotel properties owned by loews hotels. in particular, diamond offshore is currently experiencing declining demand for certain offshore drilling rigs as a result of depressed oil prices and excess rig supply and a protracted downturn in the industry. as a result, diamond offshore may incur additional asset impairments, rig retirements and/or rigs being scrapped. we also test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. asset impairment evaluations by us and our subsidiaries with respect to both long-lived assets and goodwill are, by nature, highly subjective. the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different carrying values of our assets which could impact the need to record an impairment charge and the amount of any charge taken. changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could adversely affect our or our subsidiaries' operations. we and our subsidiaries are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( gaap ), as promulgated by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ). it is possible that future accounting standards that we and our subsidiaries are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we and our subsidiaries apply to our and our subsidiaries' consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our and our subsidiaries' results of operations and financial condition. for further information regarding changes in accounting standards that are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact to the company, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included under item 8. 42 table of contents we are a holding company and derive substantially all of our income and cash flow from our subsidiaries. we rely upon our invested cash balances and distributions from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations and to declare and pay any dividends to holders of our common stock. our subsidiaries are separate and independent legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient earnings and funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of the insurance subsidiaries of cna, laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated insurance companies, and their compliance with covenants in their respective loan agreements. claims of creditors of our subsidiaries will generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and those of our creditors and shareholders. we and our subsidiaries face competition for senior executives and qualified specialized talent. we and our subsidiaries depend on the services of our key personnel, who possess skills critical to the operation of our and their businesses. our and our subsidiaries' executive management teams are highly experienced and possess extensive skills in their relevant industries. the ability to retain senior executives and to attract and retain highly skilled professionals and personnel with specialized industry and technical experience is important to our and our subsidiaries' success and future growth. competition for this talent can be intense, and we and our subsidiaries may not be successful in our efforts. the unexpected loss of the services of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us and our subsidiaries and could hinder our and their ability to effectively compete in the various industries in which we and they operate. from time to time we and our subsidiaries are subject to litigation, for which we and they may be unable to accurately assess the level of exposure and which if adversely determined, may have a significant adverse effect on our or their consolidated financial condition or results of operations. we and our subsidiaries are or may become parties to legal proceedings and disputes. these matters may include, among others, contract disputes, claims disputes, reinsurance disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, intellectual property disputes, disputes related to employment and tax matters and other litigation incidental to our or their businesses. although our current assessment is that, other than as disclosed in this report, there is no pending litigation that could have a significant adverse impact, it is difficult to predict the outcome or effect of any litigation matters and if our assessment proves to be in error, then the outcome of litigation could have a significant impact on our financial statements. we could have liability in the future for tobacco-related lawsuits. as a result of our ownership of lorillard, inc. ( lorillard ) prior to the separation of lorillard from us in 2008 (the separation ), from time to time we have been named as a defendant in tobacco-related lawsuits and could be named as a defendant in additional tobacco-related suits, notwithstanding the completion of the separation. in the separation agreement entered into between us and lorillard and its subsidiaries in connection with the separation, lorillard and each of its subsidiaries has agreed to indemnify us for liabilities related to lorillard's tobacco business, including liabilities that we may incur for current and future tobacco-related litigation against us. while we do not believe that we have any liability for tobacco-related claims, and we have never been held liable for any such claims, an adverse decision in a tobacco-related lawsuit against us could, if the indemnification is deemed for any reason to be unenforceable or any amounts owed to us thereunder are not collectible, in whole or in part, have a material adverse effect on us. 43 table of contents short term investments the carrying value of the components of cna's short term investments are presented in the following table: december 31 2019 2018 (in millions) short term investments: commercial paper $ 1,181 $ 705 u.s. treasury securities 364 185 other 316 396 total short term investments $ 1,861 $ 1,286 insurance reserves the level of claim reserves cna maintains represents its best estimate, as of a particular point in time, of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on cna's assessment of facts and circumstances known at that time. reserves are not an exact calculation of liability but instead are complex estimates that cna derives, generally utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques, from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, both internal and external, many of which are highly uncertain. as noted below, cna reviews its reserves for each segment of its business periodically, and any such review could result in the need to increase reserves in amounts which could be material and could adversely affect our results of operations and equity and cna's business and insurer financial strength and corporate debt ratings. further information on reserves is provided in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are a large diversified holding company. as such, we and our subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that involve market risk. our measure of market risk exposure represents an estimate of the change in fair value of our financial instruments. changes in the trading portfolio are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instrument held by us at december 31, assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below. we believe that the various rates of adverse market movements represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse conditions. the 79 table of contents estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. in addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to change based on our portfolio management strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management. senior management approves our overall investment strategy and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are consistent with that strategy with an acceptable level of risk. we may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into offsetting positions. interest rate risk we have exposure to interest rate risk arising from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. we attempt to mitigate our exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing instruments such as interest rate swaps, commitments to purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. we monitor our sensitivity to interest rate changes by revaluing financial assets and liabilities using a variety of different interest rates. the company uses duration and convexity at the security level to estimate the change in fair value that would result from a change in each security's yield. duration measures the price sensitivity of an asset to changes in yield. convexity measures how the duration of the asset changes with interest rates. the duration and convexity analysis takes into account the unique characteristics (e.g., call and put options and prepayment expectations) of each security, in determining the hypothetical change in fair value. the analysis is performed at the security level and is aggregated up to the asset category level. the evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in the yield rates by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a change in rates would have on the recorded market value of our investments and the resulting effect on shareholders' equity. the analysis presents the sensitivity of the market value of our financial instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which we believe are reasonably possible over a one year period. the sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the fair value of our interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on december 31, 2019 and 2018 due to an instantaneous change in the yield of the security at the end of the period of 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant. the interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in market rates. accordingly, the analysis may not be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on our earnings or shareholders' equity. further, the computations do not contemplate any actions we could undertake in response to changes in interest rates. our debt is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars and has been primarily issued at fixed rates, therefore, interest expense would not be impacted by interest rate shifts. the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $554 million and $492 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018. the impact of a 100 basis point decrease would result in an increase in market value of $602 million and $537 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018. altium packaging has entered into interest rate swaps for a notional amount of $675 million to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in libor on a portion of its variable rate debt. these swaps effectively fix the interest rate on the hedged portion of the term loan at a weighted-average rate of approximately 2.0% plus an applicable margin. at december 31, 2019 and 2018, the impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable rate debt, net of the effects of the swaps, would increase interest expense by approximately $5 million and $7 million on an annual basis. equity price risk we have exposure to equity price risk as a result of our investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. equity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from such securities or indexes. equity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous 25% decrease in the underlying reference price or index from its level at december 31, 2019 and 2018, with all other variables held constant. a model was developed to analyze the observed changes in the value of limited partnerships held by the company over a multiple year period along with the corresponding changes in various equity indices. the result of the model allowed us to estimate the change in value of limited partnerships when equity markets decline by 25%. 80 table of contents foreign exchange rate risk foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the value of financial instruments. we have foreign exchange rate exposure when we buy or sell foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency, which is reduced through the use of forward contracts. the sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 20% decrease in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar from their levels at december 31, 2019 and 2018, with all other variables held constant. commodity price risk we have exposure to price risk as a result of our investments in commodities. commodity price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments which derive their value from such commodities. commodity price risk was measured assuming an instantaneous decrease of 20% from their levels at december 31, 2019 and 2018. we have exposure to price risk as a result of altium packaging's purchases of certain raw materials, such as high-density polyethylene, polycarbonate, polypropylene and polyethylene terephthalate resins in connection with the production of its products. the purchase prices of these raw materials are determined based on prevailing market conditions. while altium packaging's operations are affected by fluctuations in resin prices, its net income over time is generally unaffected by these changes as these costs are generally passed through to its customers. credit risk we are exposed to credit risk relating to the risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. although nearly all of the company's customers pay for its services on a timely basis, the company actively monitors the credit exposure to its customers. certain of the company's subsidiaries may perform credit reviews of customers and may require customers to provide cash collateral, post a letter of credit, prepay for services or provide other credit enhancements. the following tables present the estimated effects on the fair value of our financial instruments as of december 31, 2019 and 2018 due to an increase in yield rates of 100 basis points, a 20% decline in foreign currency exchange rates and a 25% decline in the s&amp;p 500, with all other variables held constant, on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading purposes. trading portfolio: increase (decrease) december 31, 2019 fair value asset (liability) interest rate risk equity price risk (in millions) fixed maturities long $ 53 equity securities long 440 $ (110) short (17 ) 4 options purchased 1 3 written (1 ) (5) other invested assets 7 short term investments 2,521 $ (5 ) 81 table of contents other than trading portfolio: increase (decrease) december 31, 2019 fair value asset (liability) interest rate risk foreign currency risk equity price risk (in millions) fixed maturities (a) $ 42,187 $ (2,669 ) $ (458 ) equity securities 865 (28 ) (3 ) $ (45) limited partnership investments 2,004 (238) other invested assets 65 (11 ) mortgage loans 1,025 (45 ) short term investments 2,107 (1 ) (27 ) interest rate swaps (b) (8 ) 11 other derivatives (7 ) 16 (a) from a financial reporting perspective, shadow adjustments related to life and group reserves would reduce the impact of the decrease in fixed maturity securities. (b) the market risk at december 31, 2019 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. trading portfolio: increase (decrease) december 31, 2018 fair value asset (liability) interest rate risk equity price risk (in millions) fixed maturities long $ 157 $ (1 ) equity securities long 495 $ (124 ) short (6 ) 2 options purchased 18 28 written (17 ) (19 ) other invested assets 5 short term investments 1,926 (4 ) other than trading portfolio: increase (decrease) december 31, 2018 fair value asset (liability) interest rate risk foreign currency risk equity price risk (in millions) fixed maturities $ 39,542 $ (2,440 ) $ (406 ) equity securities 780 (29 ) (3 ) $ (46) limited partnership investments 2,424 (308) other invested assets 53 (9 ) mortgage loans 827 (36 ) short term investments 1,943 (1 ) (24 ) interest rate swaps (a) 11 22 other derivatives 4 15 (a) the market risk at december 31, 2018 will generally be offset by recognition of the underlying hedged transaction. 82 table of contents