quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of the company's business and activities. management of these risks is critical to the company's fiscal soundness and profitability. risk management at the company is a multi-faceted process that requires communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. the company's senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and requires specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the principal risks involved in the company's business activities are market, credit, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is the risk of loss to the company resulting from changes in interest rates and equity prices. the company has exposure to market risk primarily through its broker-dealer and banking operations. the company's broker-dealer subsidiaries trade tax exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an active market maker in approximately 260 over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, the company maintains inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate customer transactions. additionally, the company, primarily within its canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, invests for its own proprietary equity investment account. the following table represents the carrying value of trading inventories associated with the company's broker-dealer customer facilitation, market-making activities and proprietary trading activities. the table includes net long and short fair values, which is consistent with the way risk exposure is managed. see note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for the related gross long and short fair values of trading and investment account securities. broker-dealer financial instruments with market risk (in 000's): september 26, 2003 september 27, 2002 debt securities: government obligations $ (4,061) $ 27,630 corporate obligations 15,131 19,919 municipal obligations 97,219 156,507 total debt securities 108,289 204,056 equity &amp; other securities (1,256) 8,834 total $107,033 $212,890 changes in value of the company's trading and investment inventories may result from fluctuations in interest rates, credit ratings of the issuer, equity prices and the correlation among these factors. the company manages its trading inventories by product type and has established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product type. the company's primary method of controlling risk in its trading and investment inventories is through the use of limits. as of september 26, 2003, the absolute fixed income and equity inventory limits were $1,137,000,000 and $30,300,000, respectively. the company's trading activities were well within these limits at september 26, 2003. additionally, for its derivative activities, primarily interest rate swaps, the company has established a limit structure that is based on factors such as interest rate risk and spread exposure. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. limit violations are carefully monitored. management monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for derivative instruments, mark-to-market prices are obtained from an external vendor and are compared to internal valuations. summarized results are reviewed and a valuation adjustment is determined by management to record the instrument at estimated fair value. the company's banking subsidiary maintains an investment portfolio that is comprised of mortgage-backed securities, as well as mortgage, consumer and commercial loans. the bank's investments are funded by its customer obligations, including demand deposits, money market accounts, savings accounts, and certificates of deposit. based on the banking industry and the current investment portfolio of rjbank, market risk for rjbank is limited primarily to interest rate risk. rjbank reviews interest rate risk based on net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid. the following table represents the carrying value of rjbank's investments and the obligations that fund those investments. rjbank financial instruments with market risk (in 000's): september 26, 2003 september 27, 2002 debt securities mortgage-backed securities $ 241,211 $ 353,009 municipal obligations 90 291 total debt securities 241,301 353,300 loans loans receivable, net 560,634 489,697 loans available for sale 1,038 1,639 total loans 561,672 491,336 equity securities 3,484 3,000 total investments $ 806,457 $ 847,636 deposits demand deposits - non-interest bearing $ 1,342 $ 1,842 demand deposits - interest bearing 7,040 3,675 money market accounts 19,682 20,903 savings accounts 645,563 673,573 certificates of deposit 105,888 92,970 779,515 792,963 federal home loan bank advances 60,000 60,000 total liabilities $ 839,515 $ 852,963 interest rate risk the company's broker-dealer subsidiaries are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of maintaining trading inventories of fixed income instruments, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company monitors the value at risk ("var") in its fixed income cash and derivative trading portfolios on a daily basis. using a variance/covariance methodology, var is a method for estimating the potential loss in the company's fixed income portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specified confidence level. a standard regulatory-type data set is used (one year historical observation period, 0% exponential decay) and the results are compared daily against those obtained using corresponding data with a 6% exponential decay factor. var is reported at a 99% confidence level, based on a 1-day holding period; this is consistent with the company's high-turnover trading activity, which is based on supporting customer sales activity. this means that there is a one in 100 chance that daily trading net revenues will fall below the expected daily trading net revenues by an amount at least as large as the reported var. however, shortfalls on a single day can exceed reported var by significant amounts. shortfalls can also accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. the following table sets forth the high, low and average var for the company's overall portfolio during the two quarters ended september 26, 2003, with the corresponding dollar value of the company's portfolio (in 000's ) : high low average var $ 1,165 $ 318 $ 684 portfolio value $276,000 $44,000 $176,000 the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while management believes that its assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions and/or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. given its reliance on historical data, var is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. an inherent limitation of var is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. moreover, var calculated for a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day. accordingly, management also monitors the risk in its trading activities by establishing position limits and daily review of trading results, inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. additional information is discussed under derivative financial instruments in notes 1 and 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. as noted above, rjbank reviews interest rate risk based on net interest income. one of the core objectives of rjbank's asset &amp; liability management is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. the asset &amp; liability management committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rjbank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis, interest rate gap analysis and limits, and net portfolio value limits. model-based scenario analysis is used to monitor and report the interest rate risk positions, and analyze alternative strategies. net interest revenue is the net amount of interest received and interest paid. this involves large volumes of contracts and transactions, and numerous different products. simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. on the liability side, the re-pricing characteristics of deposits are based on estimates since the rates are not coupled to a specified market rate. the sensitivity of net interest revenue to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. assuming an immediate and lasting shift of 100 basis points in the term structure of interest rates, rjbank's sensitivity analysis indicates that an upward movement would increase rjbank's net interest revenue by 1.47% in the first year after the rate jump, whereas a downward shift of the same magnitude would decrease rjbank's net interest revenue by 35.3%. these sensitivity figures are based on positions as of september 30, 2003, and are subject to certain simplifying assumptions, including that management takes no corrective action. this asymmetric outcome is largely due to the historically low levels of interest rates in the u.s. leading to unprecedented pre-payment behavior and allowing for only limited opportunity to adjust rates downward on the liability side. equity price risk the company is exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of its broker-dealer subsidiaries and rjbank. the u.s. broker-dealer activities are client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. the company attempts to reduce the risk of loss inherent in its inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. the company's canadian broker-dealer has a proprietary trading business with 23 traders. the average aggregate inventory held for proprietary trading during fiscal year 2003 was cdn$3,047,834. the company's equity securities inventories are repriced on a regular basis and there are no unrecorded gains or losses. credit risk the company is engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. in the event counterparties do not fulfill their obligations, the company may be exposed to risk. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. the company manages this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which guarantee performance. the company's client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of its clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure associated with the company's private client group consists primarily of customer margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. when clients execute a purchase on margin the company is at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, the company may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, for over three quarters of the private client group purchase transactions, clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. the company monitors exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and performs analysis on a regular basis in connection with its margin lending activities. the company adjusts its margin requirements if it believes its risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. in addition, rjbank offers a variety of loan products including mortgage, commercial real estate, and consumer loans, which are collateralized, and corporate loans for which the borrower is carefully evaluated and monitored. rjbank's policy is to require customers to provide collateral prior to the disbursement of approved loans. the amount of collateral obtained, if it is deemed necessary by rjbank upon extension of credit, is based on management's credit evaluation of the counterparty. collateral held varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, residential real estate, and income-producing commercial properties. by using derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in interest rates, rjbank exposes itself to credit risk with those counterparties also. rjbank minimizes the credit or repayment risk of derivative instruments by entering into transactions only with high-quality counterparties whose credit rating is investment grade. the company is subject to concentration risk if it holds large positions, extends large loans to, or has large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist entirely of securities issued by the u.s. government. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. the company seeks to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the company, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. the company is the lessor in two leveraged commercial aircraft transactions with two major domestic airlines (continental and delta). the company's ability to realize its expected return is dependent upon the airlines' ability to fulfill its lease obligations. in the event that the airlines default on their lease commitments and the company is unable to re-lease or sell the planes with adequate terms, the company would suffer a loss of some or all of its investment. as of september 26, 2003, it is management's opinion that the value of this investment is not impaired. operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from the company's operations, including, but not limited to, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in the company's technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in the company's control processes. the company operates different businesses in diverse markets and is reliant on the ability of its employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, the company could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, the company has developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that the company's various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to customers or to the company. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout the company. the company has established a quality of markets committee that meets regularly to review execution of customer orders by the otc, option and listed trading departments. this committee is comprised of representatives from the private client group firms, correspondent services, compliance and legal and is under the direction of a senior officer of rjf. this committee reviews reports from otc, option and listed trading departments and recommends action for improvement when necessary. regulatory and legal risk legal risk includes the risk of large numbers of private client group customer claims, a potentially sizable adverse legal judgment and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts business. the company&rsquo;s subsidiaries have designated anti-money laundering compliance officers who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the u.s.a. patriot act. the company has comprehensive procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of customer funds, credit granting, collection activities, money-laundering and record keeping. the company acts as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, the company has legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives reviews proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. the compliance departments are responsible for monitoring compliance with regulatory requirements at the respective branch offices of each broker-dealer. in addition, there are compliance officers concentrating on fixed income, equity capital markets and asset management who focus on the regulations specific to those businesses. the company experienced an increase in the number of private client group claims beginning in fiscal year 2001 as a result of the downturn in the equity markets. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, the company does, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion on the company's reserve policy under "critical accounting policies"; see also "legal proceedings".quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of the company's business and activities. management of these risks is critical to the company's fiscal soundness and profitability. risk management at the company is a multi-faceted process that requires communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. the company's senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and requires specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the principal risks involved in the company's business activities are market, credit, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is the risk of loss to the company resulting from changes in interest rates and equity prices. the company has exposure to market risk primarily through its broker-dealer and banking operations. the company's broker-dealer subsidiaries trade tax exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an active market maker in approximately 300 over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, the company maintains inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. additionally, the company, primarily within its canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, invests for its own proprietary equity investment account. 30 the following table represents the carrying value of trading inventories as of fiscal year end associated with the company's broker-dealer client facilitation, market-making activities and proprietary trading activities: september 24, 2004 september 26, 2003 securities securities sold but sold but trading not yet trading not yet securities purchased securities purchased (in 000's) marketable: municipal $ 192,099 - $ 97,225 $ 5 corporate 26,216 3,522 15,728 598 government 52,335 66,073 24,947 29,008 total debt securities 270,650 69,595 137,900 29,611 equity &amp; other securities 59,211 52,686 44,047 41,820 total $329,861 $122,281 $181,947 $ 71,431 changes in value of the company's trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, credit ratings of the issuer, equity prices and the correlation among these factors. the company manages its trading inventory by product type and has established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product type. the company's primary method of controlling risk in its trading inventory is through the use of limits. as of september 24, 2004, the absolute (total long positions plus total short positions) fixed income and (total net positions) equity inventory limits were $1,237,000,000 and $69,358,000, respectiv ely. the company's total outstanding trading inventories were well within these limits at september 24, 2004. additionally, for its derivative activities, primarily interest rate swaps, the company has established a limit structure that is based on factors such as interest rate risk and spread exposure. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. limit violations are carefully monitored. management monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. summarized results are reviewed and a valuation adjustment is determined by management to record the instrument at estimated fair value. interest rate risk rjbank maintains an investment portfolio that is comprised of mortgage-backed securities, as well as mortgage, consumer and commercial loans. those investments are funded in part by its client obligations, including demand deposits, money market accounts, savings accounts, and certificates of deposit. based on the banking industry and the current investment portfolio of rjbank, market risk for rjbank is limited primarily to interest rate risk. rjbank reviews interest rate risk based on net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid. the following table represents the carrying value of rjbank's assets and liabilities that are subject to market risk. 31 rjbank financial instruments with market risk: september 24, 2004 september 30, 2003 (in 000's) debt securities: mortgage-backed securities $ 213,401 $ 241,211 municipal obligations 41 90 total debt securities 213,442 241,301 loans available for sale 694 1,038 equity securities 5,260 3,484 total assets with market risk $ 219,396 $ 245,823 certificates of deposit 140,980 105,888 federal home loan bank advances 60,000 60,000 total liabilities with market risk $ 200,980 $ 165,888 rja is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of maintaining trading inventories of fixed income instruments, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates. the company monitors, on a daily basis, the value-at-risk ( var ) in its institutional fixed income trading portfolios (cash instruments and interest rate derivatives held either as economic hedges or as customer-related positions). using a variance/covariance methodology, var is a technique for estima ting the potential loss in the company's fixed income portfolio due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specified confidence level. a standard regulatory-type data set is used (one year historical observation period, 0% exponential decay) and the results are compared daily against those obtained using corresponding data with a 6% exponential decay factor. var is reported at a 99% confidence level, based on a 1-day holding period; this is consistent with the company's high-turnover trading activity, which is based on supporting client sales activity. this means that there is a one in 100 chance that daily trading net revenues will fall below the expected daily trading net revenues by an amount at least as large as the reported var. however, shortfalls on a single day can exceed reported var by significant amounts. shortfalls can also accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. the following table sets forth the high, low and average var for the company's overall portfolio during the fiscal year ended september 24, 2004, with the corresponding dollar value of the company's portfolio: highest daily var lowest daily var daily averages var $ 1,160,000 $ 235,000 $ 642,000 portfolio value (net) $ 178,823,000 $ 72,590,000 $ 105,695,000 var as a percent of portfolio value 0.65% 0.32% 0.64% 32 the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while management believes that its assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions and/or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. given its reliance on historical data, var is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. an inherent limitation of var is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. moreover, var calculated for a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day. accordingly, management also monitors the risk in its trading activities by establishing position limits and daily review of trading results, inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. additional information is discussed under derivative financial instruments in note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. as noted above, rjbank reviews interest rate risk based on net interest income and equity valuation. one of the core objectives of rjbank's asset/liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. the asset/liability management committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rjbank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis, interest repricing gap analysis and limits, and net portfolio value limits. model-based scenario analysis is used to monitor and report the interest rate risk positions, and analyze alternative strategies. net interest income is the net amount of interest received less interest paid. this involves large volumes of contracts and transactions, and numerous products. simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. on the liability side, the re-pricing characteristics of deposits are based on estimates since the rates are not coupled to a specified market rate. the sensitivity of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. assuming an immediate and lasting shift of 100 basis points in the term structure of interest rates, rjbank's sensitivity analysis indicates that an upward movement would decrease rjbank's net interest income by 6.1% in the first year after the rate jump, whereas a downward shift of the same magnitude would decrease rjbank's net interest income by 4.7%. these sensitivity figures are based on positions as of september 30, 2004, and are subject to certain simplifying assumptions, including that management takes no corrective action. normally, a decline in rates would increase net interest income, but due to the historically low levels of interest rates in the united states, there is only limited opportunity to a djust rates downward on the liability side. equity price risk the company is exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of rja and rj ltd. rja's activities are client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. the company attempts to reduce the risk of loss inherent in its inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. the company's canadian broker-dealer has a proprietary trading business with 23 traders. the average aggregate inventory held for proprietary trading during the year ended september 24, 2004 was cdn$4,424,000 (us $3,352,000). the company's equity securities inventories are priced on a regular basis an d there are no material unrecorded gains or losses. credit risk the company is engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. in the event counterparties do not fulfill their obligations, the company may be exposed to risk. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. the company manages this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which guarantee performance. 33 the company's client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of its clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure associated with the company's private client group consists primarily of customer margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. when clients execute a purchase on margin the company is at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, the company may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, for over three quarters of the private client group purchase transactions, clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. the company monitors exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and performs analysis on a regular basis i n connection with its margin lending activities. the company adjusts its margin requirements if it believes its risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. in addition, rjbank offers a variety of loan products including mortgage, commercial real estate, and consumer loans, which are collateralized, and corporate loans for which the borrower is carefully evaluated and monitored. rjbank's policy is to require customers to provide collateral prior to the disbursement of approved loans. the amount of collateral obtained, if it is deemed necessary by rjbank upon extension of credit, is based on management's credit evaluation of the counterparty. collateral held varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, residential real estate, and income-producing commercial properties. by using derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to changes in interest rates, rjbank exposes itself to credit risk with those counterparties also. rjbank minimizes the credit or r epayment risk of derivative instruments by entering into transactions only with high-quality counterparties whose credit rating is investment grade. the company is subject to concentration risk if it holds large positions, extends large loans to, or has large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist entirely of securities issued by the u.s. government. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. the company seeks to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior ma nagement, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the company, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. the company is the lessor in two leveraged commercial aircraft transactions with two major domestic airlines (continental and delta). the company's ability to realize its expected return is dependent upon the airlines' ability to fulfill its lease obligations. in the event that the airlines default on their lease commitments and the company is unable to re-lease or sell the planes with adequate terms, the company would suffer a loss of some or all of its investment. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the company recorded a $4 million charge related to a write-down of its investment in the leveraged lease of an aircraft to delta airlines. although delta has not defaulted on its obligations under this lease, delta's financial condition has continued to deteriorate, thus increasing the likelihood of such a default . operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from the company's operations, including, but not limited to, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in the company's technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in the company's control processes. the company operates different businesses in diverse markets and is reliant on the ability of its employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, the company could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, the company has developed and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that the company's various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to customers or to the company. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout the company. 34 the company has established a quality of markets committee that meets regularly to review execution of customer orders by the otc, option and listed trading departments. this committee is comprised of representatives from the correspondent services, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of a senior officer of rjf. this committee reviews reports from otc, option and listed trading departments and recommends action for improvement when necessary. regulatory and legal risk legal risk includes the risk of private client group customer claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. the company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts business. regulatory oversight of the securities industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and the company, as well as others in the industry, has been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. the company subsidiaries have designated anti-money laundering compliance officers who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the u.s.a. patriot act. the company has comprehensive procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of customer funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money-laundering and record keeping. the company acts as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, the company has legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee o f senior executives reviews proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. the company's major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. the company experienced an increase in the number of private client group claims beginning in fiscal year 2001 as a result of the downturn in the equity markets; the number of claims has begun to decline but is still above historic levels. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, the company does, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion on the company's reserve policy under "critical accounting policies"; see also "legal proceedings" and "regulation". 35risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. we are affected by difficult conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions generally we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are affected by economic and political conditions. these conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors that may be detrimental to our operating results, including the inflation rate and the related impact on the securities markets, fluctuations in interest and currency rates, reduced investor confidence, a slowdown in economic activity and changes in volume and price levels of the securities markets. these conditions historically have impacted our trading volume and net revenues and affected our profitability. additionally, a decline in the strength of the u.s. economy can lead to deterioration in credit quality and decreased loan demand. continued or further credit dislocations or sustained market downturns may result in a decrease in the volume of trades we execute for our clients, a further decline in the value of securities we hold in inventory as assets, and continued reduced investment banking revenues given that associated fees are directly related to the number and size of transactions in which we participate. in addition, declines in the market value of securities generally result in a decline in revenues from fees based on the asset values of client portfolios, and may result in the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations, and in the failure of our clients to fulfill their credit and settlement obligations. during market downturns, our counterparties may be less likely to complete transactions. also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client accounts margin purchases may drop below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these loans, we may lose money on these margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. dramatic declines in the real estate market over the past two years, with increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. these write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have in turn caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have ceased to provide or have reduced funding to even the most credit-worthy borrowers. these lender concerns are particularly severe with respect to financial institution borrowers. rj bank is particularly affected by domestic economic conditions. such conditions include: u.s. interest rates, the rate of unemployment, real estate prices, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. the deterioration of these conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect corporate loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the united states, non-u.s. governments and international agencies. the board of governors of the federal reserve system ( frb ) regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. frb policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of financial assets that we hold, such as debt securities and loans. changes in frb policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. as described in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations- liquidity and capital resources , the failure of the financial markets to stabilize and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could continue to materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 15 lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. a compromise to our liquidity could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include illiquid or volatile markets, diminished access to debt or equity markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements and adverse legal settlements or judgments (including, among others, risks associated with auction rate securities). our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries operate in highly regulated industries. these subsidiaries require access to funds in order to maintain certain capital and regulatory requirements. therefore, these subsidiaries may, in some instances, not be able to pay dividends to fund the obligations of the parent including debt obligations and dividend payments. if existing sources of liquidity resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional outside financing or scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders and reducing our operating expenses. the availability of outside financing, including access to the capital markets and bank lending, depends on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector and our credit ratings. our cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. as a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, us included. as a result, we sold $300 million in senior notes in a registered underwritten public offering in august 2009. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, further limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain financial agreements. as such, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations- liquidity and capital resources for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we are exposed to market risk we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and venture capital and merchant banking investments. market conditions that may shift from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. certain of our venture capital and merchant banking investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. 16 we are exposed to credit risk we are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we engage in trading and funding transactions with various counterparties. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. deterioration in the credit quality of third parties who are indebted to us could result in losses. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the credit quality of our loan and investment portfolios can have a significant impact on earnings. due to the growth in rj bank's loan portfolio, credit risk at rj bank has become more significant to our overall financial performance. continued declines in the real estate market or a sustained economic downturn may cause us to have to further write-down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write-down the value of some of rj bank's available for sale securities portfolio. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products and on fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses, or increased investor redemptions, we may receive reduced fees from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. in addition, changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management. if we experience losses of managed accounts, our fees will decline. in addition, the relative investment performance of these accounts could impact our ability to attract and retain clients and thus affect our revenues, business and financial condition. we are exposed to operational risk our diverse operations are exposed to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. our business depends on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards, business disruption or system failures and failed transaction processing. also, increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations. in addition, significant operational loss could damage our reputation. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. 17 the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in recent years there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our exposure to certain financial intermediaries and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in such events. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. our business depends on technology our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables firms to reduce costs. our continued success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients and damage to our reputation. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our own or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our own, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing this type of operational risk. we face intense competition we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services and location and reputation in local markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. because of continued market unrest and increased government intervention, this trend toward consolidation has intensified. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our employees and financial advisors. as such, to compete effectively, we must attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 18 we operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition the securities industry is subject to extensive regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. we could be subject to civil liability, criminal liability or sanctions, including revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors, censures, fines or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business, if laws or regulations are violated. any such liability or sanction could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. our banking operations also expose us to a risk of loss resulting from failure to comply with banking laws. in light of current conditions in the u.s. financial markets and the economy, legislators and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry by introducing proposals for new legislation and regulations. we are unable to predict whether any of these proposals will be implemented and in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our banking operations may be required to increase its regulatory capital and be required to pay significantly higher fdic premiums, including special assessments, due to the significant impact market developments have had on the insurance fund of the fdic. we may also be adversely affected as a result of changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. see the section entitled business regulation within item 1 of this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational harm. our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by new regulations to which we expect to become subject as a result of becoming a financial holding company in september 2008, we announced that we would seek approval from the federal reserve board to become a bank holding company and subsequently elect to become a financial holding company. although we have a statutory grace period of two years, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years, to conform existing activities and investments to the restrictions on nonbanking activities that apply to financial holding companies, and although we expect to be able to continue to engage in the vast majority of the activities in which we currently engage after such time, it is possible that certain of our existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible under applicable regulations. in addition, as a financial holding company, we will become subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the frb, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements, and, as a nationally-chartered commercial bank, rj bank will be subject to the functional supervision and regulation of the occ. see the section entitled business regulation of item 1 of this report for additional information. we are exposed to litigation risks many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, arising from the normal course of business. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our employees could result in substantial liability to us. our private client group business segment has historically had more risk of litigation than our institutional businesses. 19 in turbulent times such as these, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives (including auction rate securities), the ability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions, contractual issues, employment claims and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. we have received inquiries from the sec, finra and several state regulatory authorities requesting information concerning auction rate securities. we have also been named in civil class action lawsuits relating to sales of auction rate securities and disclosures relating to bank reserves, respectively. we are working with other industry participants in order to resolve issues relating to auction rate securities and are exploring a range of potential solutions. if we were to determine, in order to resolve pending claims, inquiries or investigations, to repurchase at par value auction rate securities from certain of our clients, we would be required to assess whether we have sufficient regulatory capital and cash or borrowing capacity to do so, and there can be no assurance that we would have such capacity. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and our prospects. see item 3, legal proceedings of this report for a discussion of our legal matters (including auction rate securities) and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report regarding our approach to managing legal risk. damage to our reputation could damage our businesses maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unethical behavior and the activities of customers and counterparties. further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. the current condition of the real estate and credit markets has substantially increased the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting policies for additional information on the sensitivity of these estimates. certain of our financial instruments, including cash equivalents, certain trading assets and liabilities, certain available for sale securities, certain loans and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on our judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings. 20 our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. from time to time the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and the sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for a further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting policies discussion within item 7 of this report and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk we seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms, however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. in addition, rj bank has undergone significant growth in recent years. a failure to adequately manage the growth of rj bank, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. we have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report. we are exposed to risk from international markets we do business in other parts of the world, including in a few developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets, and as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, reputational, litigation and regulatory risks, in non-u.s. markets. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative and political developments. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from the trading of non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified, because generally non-u.s. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than u.s. trading markets. the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile the market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be more volatile than in prior years and subject to fluctuations. stocks of financial institutions have experienced significant downward pressure in connection with the current economic downturn and may again experience such pressures in the future. significant declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could harm our ability to recruit and retain key employees, reduce our access to debt or equity capital and otherwise harm our business or financial condition. 21 our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted from our southfield, michigan location (see item 1, business in this report), our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions and communications. our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced and tested to allow for continuous business processing in the event of weather-related or other interruptions of operations at the headquarters complex. we have also developed a business continuity plan for our private client group branches in the event these branches are impacted by severe weather. each branch is assigned a contingency branch in another part of the country that allows the impacted branch the ability to communicate through the contingency branch. we have self-insurance risks our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including, without limitation, property and casualty, workers' compensation, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of our business and activities. management of these risks is critical to our fiscal soundness and profitability. our risk management processes are multi-faceted and require communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. our senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and requires specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the principal risks involved in our business activities are market, credit, liquidity, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is our risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates and security prices. we have exposure to market risk primarily through our broker-dealer and banking operations. our broker-dealer subsidiaries, primarily rj&amp;a, trade tax-exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an active market maker in approximately 699 listed and over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, we maintain inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. rj bank holds investments in mortgage-backed securities and cmos within its available for sale securities portfolio as well as sba loan securitizations not yet transferred. additionally, primarily within our canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, we invest in securities for our own proprietary equity investment account. see notes 3 and 4 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the fair value of trading inventories associated with our broker-dealer client facilitation, market-making and proprietary trading activities in addition to rj bank's securitizations. see note 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the fair value of available for sale securities. changes in value of our trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, credit ratings of the issuer, equity prices and the correlation among these factors. we manage our trading inventory by product type and have established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product type. our primary method of controlling risk in our trading inventory is through the establishment and monitoring of limits on the dollar amount of securities positions that can be entered into and other risk-based limits. limits are established both for categories of securities (e.g., otc equities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds) and for individual traders. as of september 30, 2009, the absolute fixed income and equity inventory limits excluding the contractual underwriting commitments for our domestic subsidiaries, were $1.96 billion and $59.8 million, respectively. the same inventory limits applicable to our canadian broker-dealer subsidiary rj ltd. as of september 30, 2009, were cdn $46.6 million and cdn $72.9 million, respectively. our trading activities in the aggregate were significantly below these limits at september 30, 2009. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. limit violations are carefully monitored. management also monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, we monitor the exposure in our derivatives subsidiary daily based on established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate, spread, ratio, basis, and volatility risk. these exposures are monitored both on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods. in the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. rj&amp;a and rj ltd., as a lead, co-lead or syndicate member in the underwriting deal, may be subject to market risk on any unsold shares issued in the offering to which we are committed. risk exposure is controlled by limiting participation, the deal size or through the syndication process. 59 interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of maintaining trading inventories of fixed income instruments and actively manage this risk using hedging techniques that involve swaps, futures, and u.s. treasury and agency mbs pass-through obligations. we monitor, on a daily basis, the value-at-risk ( var ) in our institutional fixed income trading portfolios (cash instruments and interest rate derivatives). var is a statistical technique for estimating the potential loss in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements over a specified time horizon at a particular confidence level. to calculate var, we use historical simulation. this approach assumes that historical changes in market conditions are representative of future changes. the simulation is based upon daily market data for the previous twelve months. var is reported at a 99% confidence level, based on a one-day time horizon. this means that we could expect to incur losses greater than those predicted by the var estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year on average over the course of time. during the fiscal year ended september 30, 2009, the reported daily loss in the institutional fixed income trading portfolio exceeded the predicted var one time. however, trading losses on a single day could exceed the reported var by significant amounts in unusually volatile markets and might accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. accordingly, we employ additional interest rate risk controls including stress testing, position limits, a daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory, independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk and review of issuer ratings. the following table sets forth the high, low and daily average var for our overall institutional portfolio during the fiscal year ended september 30, 2009, with the corresponding dollar value of our portfolio: year ended september 30, 2009 var at daily september 30, september 30, high low average 2009 2008 ($ in 000's) daily var $ 1,095 $ 296 $ 563 $ 710 $ 586 related portfolio value (net) (1) $ 119,986 $ 97,195 $ 101,186 $ 180,047 $ 103,047 var as a percent of portfolio value 0.91% 0.30% 0.56% 0.39% 0.57% (1) portfolio value achieved on the day of the var calculation. the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while we believe that our assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. as a result, var statistics are more reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative financial instruments. rj ltd.'s net income is sensitive to changes in interest rate conditions. assuming a shift of 100 basis points in interest rates and using interest-bearing asset and liability balances as of september 30, 2009, rj ltd.'s sensitivity analysis indicates that an upward movement would increase rj ltd.'s net income by approximately cdn $4.1 million, whereas a downward shift of the same magnitude would decrease rj ltd.'s net income by approximately cdn $1.5 million. this sensitivity analysis is based on the assumption that all other variables remain constant. 60 rj bank maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of mortgage, corporate and consumer loans, as well as mortgage-backed securities, cmos, securities purchased under resale agreements, short-term u.s. treasury bills, sba loan securitizations, deposits at other banks and other investments. those earning assets are funded by rj bank's obligations to customers and fhlb advances. based on the current earning asset portfolio of rj bank, market risk for rj bank is limited primarily to interest rate risk. in the current market and economic environment, short-term interest rate risk has been severely impacted as credit conditions have rapidly deteriorated and financial markets have experienced widespread illiquidity and elevated levels of volatility. rj bank analyzes interest rate risk based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range of interest rate scenarios. one of the objectives of rj bank's asset/liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. the asset/liability management committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rj bank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis, interest repricing gap analysis and limits, and net portfolio value limits. simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. to ensure that rj bank is within the limits established for net interest income, a sensitivity analysis of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. rj bank utilizes its own internal asset/liability model to analyze the available data. the following table is an analysis of rjbank's estimated net interest income over a twelve month period based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own internal asset/liability model: changes net interest projected change in in rate income net interest income ($ in 000s) +300 $ 220,599 (10.61%) +200 229,325 (7.07%) +100 238,053 (3.54%) - 246,780 -% the following table presents the amount of rj bank's interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities expected to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the indicated periods at september 30, 2009: repricing opportunities 0 - 6 months 7 12 months 1 5 years 5 or more years (in 000's) interest earning assets: loans $ 4,967,604 $ 651,872 $ 1,126,824 $ 34,935 available for sale securities 313,596 29,836 130,110 133,276 other investments 3,833,082 - - - total interest earning assets 9,114,282 681,708 1,256,934 168,211 interest bearing liabilities: transaction and savings accounts 9,229,908 - - - certificates of deposit 53,498 42,284 97,697 - federal home loan bank advances 900,000 5,000 45,000 - total interest bearing liabilities $ 10,183,406 $ 47,284 $ 142,697 $ - gap $ (1,069,124) $ 634,424 $ 1,114,237 $ 168,211 cumulative gap $ (1,069,124) $ (434,700) $ 679,537 $ 847,748 61 the following table shows the distribution of those rj bank loans that mature in more than one year between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at september 30, 2009: interest rate type fixed adjustable total (in 000's) commercial loans $ 3,071 $ 801,946 $ 805,017 real estate construction loans - 147,644 147,644 commercial real estate loans (1) 10,186 2,864,576 2,874,762 residential mortgage loans 27,441 2,371,033 2,398,474 consumer loans - 20,445 20,445 total loans $ 40,698 $ 6,205,644 $ 6,246,342 (1) of this amount, $1.2 billion is secured by non-owner occupied commercial real estate properties or their repayment is dependent upon the operation or sale of commercial real estate properties as of september 30, 2009. the remainder is wholly or partially secured by real estate, the majority of which is also secured by other assets of the borrower. to mitigate interest rate risk in a significantly rising rate environment, rj bank purchased three-year term interest rate caps with high strike rates (more than 300 basis points higher than current rates) during the fiscal year ended september 30, 2008 that will increase in value if interest rates rise and entitle rj bank to cash flows if interest rates rise above strike rates. rj bank minimizes the credit or repayment risk of derivative instruments by entering into transactions only with high-quality counterparties whose credit rating is investment grade. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. equity price risk we are exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of rj&amp;a and rj ltd. the u.s. broker-dealer activities are primarily client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. we attempt to reduce the risk of loss inherent in our inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. our canadian broker-dealer has a proprietary trading business with 31 traders. the average aggregate inventory held for proprietary trading during the fiscal year ended september 30, 2009 was cdn $10.9 million. our equity securities inventories are recorded at fair value at each reporting period and there are no material unrecorded gains or losses. foreign exchange risk rj ltd. is subject to foreign exchange risk primarily due to financial instruments held in u.s. dollars that may be impacted by fluctuation in foreign exchange rates. in order to mitigate this risk, rj ltd. enters into forward foreign exchange contracts. the fair value of these contracts is nominal. as of september 30, 2009, forward contracts outstanding to buy and sell u.s. dollars totaled cdn $14.8 million and cdn $5.9 million, respectively. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower's, issuer's or counterparty's ability to meet its financial obligations under contractual or agreed upon terms. the nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure of that transaction and the parties involved. credit risk is an integral component of the profit assessment of lending and other financing activities. 62 we are engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. we are exposed to risk that these counterparties may not fulfill their obligations. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. we manage this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which guarantee performance. our client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of our clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure associated with our pcg segment results primarily from customer margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. when clients execute a purchase, we are at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, we may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, most private clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. we monitor exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and perform analysis on a regular basis in connection with our margin lending activities. we adjust our margin requirements if we believe our risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. we are subject to concentration risk if we hold large positions, extend large loans to, or have large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist primarily of securities issued by the u.s. government or its agencies. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. we seek to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. we are exposed to credit risk as a result of our leveraged lease with continental. see the contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies section above for further discussion of this exposure. the valuation of the mortgage-backed securities and non-agency cmos held as available for sale securities by rj bank is impacted by the credit risk associated with the underlying residential loans. underlying loan characteristics associated with this risk are considered in valuing these securities. see note 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information. rj bank has a significant corporate and commercial loan portfolio. a significant downturn in the overall economy, deterioration in real estate values or a significant issue within any sector where rj bank has significant exposure could result in large provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs. rj bank's strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all corporate, residential and consumer credit exposures. the strategy also includes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of all corporate loans and individual delinquent residential and consumer loans. the credit risk management process also includes an annual independent review of the credit risk monitoring process that performs assessments of compliance with commercial, residential and consumer credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit information. rj bank seeks to identify potential problem loans early, record any necessary risk rating changes and charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan losses. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is composed of approximately 250 borrowers, all of which are underwritten, managed and reviewed at rj bank's corporate headquarters location, which facilitates close monitoring of the portfolio by credit risk personnel, relationship officers and senior rj bank executives. rj bank utilizes a comprehensive credit risk rating system to measure the credit quality of individual corporate loans and related unfunded lending commitments, including the probability of default and/or loss given default of each corporate loan and commitment outstanding. 63 in evaluating credit risk, rj bank considers trends in loan performance, industry or customer concentrations, the loan portfolio composition, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions and macroeconomic factors. during the fiscal year corporate profit levels have weakened, unemployment rates have risen, retail sales have declined and credit quality trends have deteriorated, all potentially negatively impacting loan performance. however, there have been signs that the capital markets have improved during the second half of the year as corporate borrowers have accessed the markets for new equity and debt. the decline in residential home values has had a significant adverse impact on residential mortgage loans. median home prices continued to deteriorate during much of the year, though they have recently leveled or improved in many markets. these factors have negatively affected, and may continue to adversely impact our provision for loan losses and net charge-offs. several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the allowance for loan losses at september 30, 2009, including the risk profile of the portfolios, net charge-offs during the period, the level of nonperforming loans, and delinquency ratios. rj bank also considered the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors and the extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. finally, rj bank considered current economic conditions that might impact the portfolio. rj bank determined the allowance that was required for specific loan grades based on relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. on an ongoing basis, rj bank evaluates its methods for determining the allowance for each element of the portfolio and makes enhancements considered appropriate. changes in the allowance for loan losses of rj bank were as follows: year ended september 30, september 30, september 30, 2009 2008 2007 (in 000's) allowance for loan losses, beginning of period $ 88,155 $ 47,022 $ 18,694 provision for loan losses 169,341 54,749 29,410 net charge-offs (107,224) (13,616) (1,082) allowance for loan losses, end of period $ 150,272 $ 88,155 $ 47,022 allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding 2.23% 1.23% 1.00% rapid growth in loan balances (nearly 200% since the end of fiscal year 2006) in combination with the impact of the significant national economic downturn on the loan portfolio gave rise to an attendant increase in the loan loss provision during the current year. the significant decline in commercial real estate values and the increase in the actual and projected loss experience on residential loans also contributed to the increase in the provision for loan losses to $169.3 million compared to $54.7 million in the prior year. 64 the following table presents net loan charge-offs and the percentage of these net loan charge-offs to the average outstanding loan balances by loan category for the years ended september 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007: september 30, september 30 september 30, 2009 2008 2007 net loan % of avg. net loan % of avg. net loan % of avg. charge-off outstanding charge-off outstanding charge-off outstanding amount loans amount loans amount loans (in $000's) corporate $ (80,538) 1.69% $ (10,169) 0.26% $ (629) 0.04% residential/consumer (26,686) 0.98% (3,447) 0.15% (453) 0.03% total $ (107,224) 1.43% $ (13,616) 0.22% $ (1,082) 0.03% the level of charge-off activity is a factor that is considered in evaluating the potential for and severity of future credit losses. charge-offs increased significantly during the year ended september 30, 2009, resulting from; the increase in the amount of loans outstanding over the three year period since september 30, 2006, the impact of the current economic environment on rj bank's residential acquisition and development portfolio, the deterioration of the housing market which has increased the number and severity of losses on residential mortgage loans, and the charge-off of two commercial real estate related credits totaling $40.1 million early in fiscal 2009 (which represented half of the corporate net charge-offs for the year). the majority ($30 million) of the remaining corporate net charge-offs were within the residential acquisition and development sector. the table below presents nonperforming loans and total allowance for loan losses by loan category at september 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007: september 30, september 30, september 30, 2009 2008 2007 allowance for allowance for allowance for nonperforming loan losses nonperforming loan losses nonperforming loan losses loan balance balance loan balance balance loan balance balance (in 000's) corporate $ 86,422 $ (122,096) $ 37,462 $ (79,404) $ 682 $ (42,358) residential/consumer 71,960 (28,176) 20,702 (8,751) 3,383 (4,664) total $ 158,382 $ (150,272) $ 58,164 $ (88,155) $ 4,065 $ (47,022) the level of nonperforming loans is another indicator of potential future credit losses. the amount of nonperforming loans increased nearly 175% during the year ended september 30, 2009 reflecting the substantial increase in outstanding loans in recent years and the impact of the current economic downturn on rj bank's borrowers. included in nonperforming residential/consumer loans are $43.8 million in loans for which $22.8 million in charge-offs were previously recorded. loan underwriting policies a component of rj bank's credit risk management strategy is well-defined policies and procedures. rj bank's underwriting policies for the major types of loans are: 65 residential and consumer loan portfolio rj bank's residential loan portfolio consists of first mortgage loans originated by rj bank via referrals from our pcg financial advisors and first mortgage loans purchased by rj bank originated by select large financial institutions. these purchased mortgage loans represent over 90% of rj bank's residential loan portfolio. all of rj bank's residential loans adhere to strict underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of the borrower, loan-to-value ( ltv ), and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). interest-only adjustable rate mortgages represent the majority of first mortgages in the residential portfolio. on average, three-fourths of the purchased residential loans are re-underwritten with updated borrower credit information and valuations, if warranted, by rj bank staff prior to purchase, with the remainder coming from long-standing sources and meeting high credit criteria. approximately 93% of the residential loans are fully documented loans to owner-occupant borrowers. rj bank does not originate or purchase option arm loans with negative amortization, reverse mortgages, or other types of exotic loan products. loans with deeply discounted teaser rates are not originated or purchased. originated 15 or 30-year fixed-rate mortgages are typically sold to correspondents and only retained on an exception basis. all of rj bank's first mortgage loans are serviced by the seller or by third parties. rj bank's consumer loan portfolio is comprised of personal loans and various credit lines, including home equity lines of credit. the consumer loan portfolio represents less than 1% of rj bank's total loan portfolio. the underwriting policy for rj bank's consumer loans includes a review of repayment history, the debt-to-income ratio of the borrower and the collateral for secured loans. corporate loan portfolio rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is diversified among a number of industries and comprised of project finance real estate loans, commercial lines of credit and term loans, the majority of which (approximately 90%), are participations in snc or other large syndicated loans led by approximately 30 different financial institutions. the sncs are loan syndications totaling over $20 million that are shared between three or more regulated institutions. rj bank is sometimes involved in the syndication of the loan at inception and some of these loans have been purchased in secondary trading markets. as the process for evaluating the sncs is consistent with the process for the other corporate loans in the portfolio, there is no additional risk with the sncs as compared to any other loan in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. in addition, all corporate loans are subject to rj bank's regulatory review by the ots, the regulator of rj bank. the remainder of the corporate loan portfolio is comprised of smaller participations and direct loans. regardless of the source, all loans are independently underwritten to rj bank credit policies, are subject to loan committee approval, and credit quality is continually monitored by rj bank's corporate lending staff. rj bank credit policies include criteria related to ltv limits based upon property type, single borrower loan limits, loan term and structure parameters (including guidance on leverage and debt service coverage ratios), industry concentration limits, secondary sources of repayment and other criteria. a large portion of rj bank's corporate loans are to borrowers in industries in which we have expertise, through coverage provided by our capital markets research analysts. more than half of rj bank's corporate borrowers are public companies and nearly two-thirds have annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) of greater than $50 million. rj bank's corporate loans are generally secured by all assets of the borrower and in some instances are secured by mortgages on specific real estate. in a limited number of transactions, loans in the portfolio are extended on an unsecured basis to very creditworthy borrowers. there are no subordinated loans or mezzanine financings in the corporate loan portfolio. risk monitoring process another component of our credit risk strategy at rj bank is our ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all residential, consumer and corporate credit exposures. there are various factors included in these processes, depending on the loan portfolio. residential and consumer loans we track and review many factors to monitor credit risk in rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio. these factors include, but are not limited to: loan performance trends, loan product parameters and qualification requirements, geographic concentrations, borrower credit scores, ltv ratios, occupancy (i.e. owner occupied, second home or investment property), level of documentation, loan purpose, average loan size, and policy exceptions. 66 residential mortgage and consumer loan delinquency levels have been increasing at rj bank due to the current economic downturn and the high level of unemployment. at september 30, 2009, loans over 30 days delinquent (including nonperforming loans) increased to 3.62% of residential and consumer loans outstanding, compared to 1.02% over 30 days delinquent at september 30, 2008 and 0.36% at september 30, 2007. however, our september 30, 2009 percentage compares favorably to the national average for over 30 day delinquencies of 9.46% as reported by the federal reserve. the following table presents a summary of delinquent residential and consumer loans at september 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007: delinquent residential delinquent residential and consumer loans and consumer loans as a percent of outstanding amount (in 000's) loan balances september 30, september 30, 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 30-89 days $ 19,767 $ 7,087 $ 3,569 0.82% 0.27% 0.18% 90 days or more 67,640 19,507 3,384 2.80% 0.75% 0.18% to manage and limit credit losses, we maintain a rigorous process to manage our loan delinquencies. with all whole loans purchased on a servicing-retained basis and all originated first mortgages serviced by a third-party, the primary collection effort resides with the servicer. rj bank personnel direct and actively monitor the servicers' efforts through extensive communications regarding individual loan status changes and requirements of timely and appropriate collection or property management actions and reporting, including management of other third parties used in the collection process (appraisers, attorneys, etc.). additionally, every residential and consumer loan over 60 days past due is reviewed by rj bank personnel monthly and documented in a written report detailing delinquency information, balances, collection status, appraised value, and other data points. rj bank senior management meets monthly to discuss the status, collection strategy and charge-off/write-down recommendations on every residential or consumer loan over 60 days past due. updated collateral valuations are obtained for loans over 90 days past due and partial charge-offs are taken on individual loans based upon these valuations. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the residential mortgage portfolio. the geographic concentrations (top five states) of rj bank's one-to-four family residential mortgage loans are as follows : september 30, september 30, 2009 (1) 2008 (2) ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 6.1% ca 5.2% ca 4.3% ny 3.3% ny 3.5% fl 3.0% fl 1.9% nj 2.1% nj 1.4% va 1.3% va (1) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $7.9 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2009 exclude short-term qualifying investments purchased with the proceeds of $2.3 billion in additional deposits received through the rjbdp, the majority of which were redirected to other third-party banks participating in the multi-bank program in october 2009, and the $900 million fhlb advance repaid on october 1, 2009. (2) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $9.4 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2008 exclude short-term qualifying investments purchased with the proceeds of the $1.9 billion fhlb advance repaid on october 1, 2008 and the $60 million return of capital to rjf on october 2, 2008. 67 loans where borrowers may be subject to payment increases include adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms that initially require payment of interest only; payments may increase significantly when the interest-only period ends and the loan principal begins to amortize. at september 30, 2009 and 2008, these loans totaled $1.7 billion and $2 billion, respectively, or approximately 70% of the residential mortgage portfolio. these loans are underwritten based on a variety of factors including the borrower's credit history, debt to income ratio, employment, the ltv ratio, and the borrower's disposable income and cash reserves. interest-only loans are underwritten at the time of application or purchase based on the amortizing payment amount, and borrowers are required to meet stringent parameters regarding debt ratios, ltv levels, and credit score. in instances where the borrower is of lower credit standing, the loans are typically underwritten to have a lower ltv ratio and/or other mitigating factors. a large percentage of these loans were projected to adjust to a lower payment than the current payment, and this percentage is likely to increase in a low interest rate environment. the outstanding balance of interest-only loans at september 30, 2009, based on their contractual terms, are scheduled to reprice as follows (in 000's): september 30, 2009 one year or less $ 240,988 over one year through two years 529,534 over two years through three years 440,083 over three years through four years 219,259 over four years through five years 168,485 over five years 83,123 total outstanding interest-only loan balance $ 1,681,472 management does not believe these loans represent an unusual concentration of credit risk as all of these loans are conservatively underwritten, secured by first mortgages on one-to-four family residential real estate and diversified geographically. a component of credit risk management for the residential portfolio is the ltv and borrower credit score at origination or purchase. the ltv/fico scores of rj bank's residential first mortgage loan portfolio are as follows: september 30, september 30, 2009 2008 residential first mortgage loan weighted average ltv/fico (1) 64% / 751 64% / 750 (1) at origination. small group of local loans representing less than 0.5% of residential portfolio excluded. high ltv loans include all mortgage loans where the ltv is greater than or equal to 90% at origination and the borrower has not provided other credit support or purchased private mortgage insurance ( pmi ). at september 30, 2009 and 2008, rj bank held $233,000 and $472,000 respectively, in total outstanding balances for these loans, representing home equity lines of credit only. corporate loans credit risk in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is monitored on an individual loan basis for trends in borrower operational performance, payment history, credit ratings, collateral performance, loan covenant compliance and other factors including industry performance and concentrations. as part of the credit review process the loan grade is reviewed at least quarterly to confirm the appropriate risk rating for each credit. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies , in this report for additional information on rj bank's risk monitoring process for the corporate loan portfolio. nonperforming corporate loans are defined as those loans where management has determined that full and timely collection of interest and principal is in doubt, loans which are 90 days past due, and those loans which are troubled debt restructurings. at september 30, 2009, excluding loans classified as nonperforming, there were no corporate loans delinquent greater than 30 days except for two loans totaling $2.8 million secured by marketable securities. 68 credit risk is also managed by diversifying the corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's corporate portfolio does not contain a significant concentration in any single industry. the industry concentrations (top five categories) of rj bank's corporate loans at september 30, 2009 and 2008 were as follows: september 30, september 30, 2009 (1) 2008 (2) ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 3.7% healthcare (excluding hospitals) 3.3% telecommunications 3.5% retail real estate 3.2% retail real estate 3.3% telecommunications 3.2% consumer products/services 3.3% media communications 3.1% industrial manufacturing 3.1% office properties 3.0% healthcare (excluding hospitals) (1) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $7.9 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2009 exclude the $2.3 billion in additional deposits received through the rjbdp, the majority of which were redirected to other third party banks participating in the multi-bank program in october 2009, and the $900 million fhlb advance repaid on october 1, 2009. (2) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $9.4 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2008 exclude the $1.9 billion fhlb advance repaid on october 1, 2008 and the $60 million return of capital to rjf on october 2, 2008. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information. liquidity risk see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources, in this report for more information regarding our liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in our technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in our control processes. we operate different businesses in diverse markets and are reliant on the ability of our employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, we could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, we have developed and continue to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that our various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to either us or our customers. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout our operations. we have established a quality of markets committee that meets regularly to monitor the best execution activities of our trading departments as they relate to customer orders. this committee is comprised of representatives from the otc trading, listed trading, options, municipal trading, taxable trading, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of one of our senior officers. this committee reviews reports from the respective departments listed above and recommends action for improvement when necessary. 69 regulatory and legal risk legal risk includes the risk of pcg customer claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct business. regulatory oversight of the securities industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and we, as well as others in the industry, have been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. we have comprehensive procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of customer funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money-laundering and record keeping. we have designated anti-money laundering compliance officers in each of our subsidiaries who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the u.s.a. patriot act. we act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, we have financial and legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives review proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. our banking activities are highly regulated and subject to impact from changes in banking laws and regulations, including unanticipated rulings. present economic conditions have led to rapid introduction of significant regulatory programs or changes affecting consumer protection and disclosure requirements, financial reporting and planned regulatory restructuring. regulations and related requirements including the bank secrecy act and u.s.a. patriot act, as well as new regulatory or government programs, are closely monitored and acted upon to ensure a timely response. our major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. we have experienced an increase in the number of claims as a result of the market downturn and the illiquidity of ars. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, we do, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion of our reserve policy under "critical accounting policies" in item 7, management's discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations , also see item 3, "legal proceedings" and item 1, business -regulation . 70risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock. 13 risks related to our business and industry we are affected by difficult conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions generally we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are affected by economic and political conditions. these conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors that may be detrimental to our operating results, including the inflation rate, the related impact on the securities markets including changes in volume and price levels of securities, fluctuations in interest and currency rates, reduced investor confidence, and a slowdown in economic activity. these conditions historically have impacted our trading volume and net revenues and affected our profitability. additionally, a decline in the strength of the u.s. economy can lead to deterioration in credit quality and decreased loan demand. continued or further credit dislocations or sustained market downturns may result in a decrease in the volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in the value of securities we hold in inventory as assets, and potentially reduced investment banking revenues given that associated fees are directly related to the number and size of transactions in which we participate. in addition, declines in the market value of securities generally result in a decline in revenues from fees based on the asset values of client portfolios, and may result in the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations, as well as the failure of our clients to fulfill their credit and settlement obligations. also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client accounts margin purchases may drop below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these loans, we may lose money on these margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. dramatic declines in the real estate market over the past few years, with increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as commercial and investment banks. these write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have in turn caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. rj bank is particularly affected by domestic economic conditions. such conditions include: u.s. interest rates, the rate of unemployment, real estate prices, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies, among o thers. the deterioration of these conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect corporate loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies that are adopted by various regulatory authorities of the u.s., non-u.s. governments, and international agencies. the frb regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. frb policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in frb policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. as described in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations- liquidity and capital resources , a worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 14 lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. a compromise to our liquidity could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include illiquid or volatile markets, diminished access to debt or equity markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements and adverse legal settlements or judgments (including, among others, risks associated with auction rate securities). our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries operate in highly regulated industries. these subsidiaries may require access to funds in order to maintain certain capital and regulatory requirements. therefore, these subsidiaries may, in some instances, not be able to pay dividends to fund the obligations of the parent including debt obligations and dividend payments. if ex isting sources of liquidity resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional outside financing or scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders and reducing our operating expenses. the availability of outside financing, including access to the capital markets and bank lending, depends on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector and our credit ratings. our cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. as a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to pr ovide funding to borrowers, us included. as a result, we sold $300 million in senior notes in a registered underwritten public offering in august 2009. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, further limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain financial agreements. as such, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations- liquidity and capital resources for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we are exposed to market risk we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and venture capital and merchant banking investments. market conditions that may shift from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. certain of our venture capital and merchant banking investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. 15 we are exposed to credit risk we are exposed to the risk that third-parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. these parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we engage in trading and funding transactions with various counterparties. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. deterioration in the credit quality of third-parties who are indebted to us could result in losses. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the credit quality of our loan and investment portfolios can have a significant impact on earnings. although no significant credit concentrations exist, the deterioration of an individually large loan exposure could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charge-offs and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and the level of regulatory capital at rj bank. due to the size of rj bank's loan portfolio, credit risk at rj bank is significant to our overall financial performance. continued declines in the real estate market or a sustained economic downturn may cause us to have to further write-down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write-down the value of some of rj bank's available for sale securities portfolio. credit quality ge nerally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products and on fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses, or increased investor redemptions, we may receive reduced fees from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. in addition, changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management. if we experience losses of managed accounts, our fees will decline. in addition, the relative investment performance of these accounts could impact our ability to attract and retain clients and thus affect our revenues, business and financial condition. our underwriting, market making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, we may incur losses as a result of proprietary positions we hold. we have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. there is risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. even if a p rivate equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. 16 the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. in recent years there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our exposure to certain financial intermediaries and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in such events. any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by oth er institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. we have experienced significant pricing pressures in areas of our business, which may impair our future revenue and profitability in recent years, our business has experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of b rokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. growth of our business could increase costs and regulatory risks we may incur significant expenses in connection with expansion of our existing businesses or recruitment of financial advisors or in connection with strategic acquisitions, or investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such investment or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal controls procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. we face intense competition we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services and location and reputation in local markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. because of continued market unrest and increased government intervention, this trend toward consolidation has intensified. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our employees a nd financial advisors. as such, to compete effectively, we must attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 17 competition for personnel within the financial services industry is intense. the cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably, as competition for these professionals has intensified. employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry increases, we may have to devote significantly more resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the amortization costs incurred by us in connection with the upfront loans we offer to financia l advisors. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. damage to our reputation could damage our businesses maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. damage to our reputation can therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures, failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, unethical behavior and the activities of customers and counterparties. further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. we are exposed to operational risk our diverse operations are exposed to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. our business depends on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards, business disruption or system fai lures and failed transaction processing. also, increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations. in addition, significant operational loss could damage our reputation. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. 18 our business depends on technology our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables firms to reduce costs. our continued success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients and damage to our reputation. our operations rely on the secur e processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our own or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our own, our clients', our counterparties' or third-parties' operations. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are eit her not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing this type of operational risk. we are exposed to litigation risks many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, arising from the normal course of business. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our employees could result in substantial liability for us. our private client group business segment has historically had more risk of litigation than our institutional businesses. in turbulent times such as these, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives (including auction rate securities), the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions, contractual issues, employment claims and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. we have received inquiries from the sec, finra and several state regulatory authorities requestin g information concerning our sale of auction rate securities to our customers. we have also been named in civil class action lawsuits relating to sales of auction rate securities. we are working with other industry participants in order to resolve issues relating to auction rate securities and are exploring a range of potential solutions. if we were to determine, in order to resolve pending claims, inquiries or investigations, to repurchase at par value auction rate securities from certain of our clients, we would be required to assess whether we have sufficient regulatory capital and cash or borrowing capacity to do so, and there can be no assurance that we would have such capacity. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and our prospects. see item 3, legal proceedings of this report for a discussion of our legal matters (including auction rate securities) and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report regarding our approach to managing legal risk. 19 the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. the current condition of the real estate and credit markets has substantially increased the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting policies for additional information on the sensitivity of these estimates. certain of our financial instruments including certain trading assets and liabilities, certain available for sale securities, certain loans and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on our judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet i tems, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. from time to time the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and the sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes ca n be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for a further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting policies discussion within item 7 of this report and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk we seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms, however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. a failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our risk management processes in clude addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. we have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report. 20 we are exposed to risk from international markets we do business in other parts of the world, including in a few developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets, and as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, reputational, litigation and regulatory risks, in non-u.s. markets. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative and political developments. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from the trading of non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. the impact of these f luctuations could be magnified, because generally non-u.s. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than u.s. trading markets. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted from our southfield, michigan location (see item 1, business in this report), our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions and communications. our business continuity plan continues to be enhanced and tested to allow for continuous business processing in the event of weather-related or other interruptions of operations at the headquarters complex. we have also developed a business continuity plan for our private client group branches in the event these branches are impacted by severe weather. each branch is assigned a contingency branch in another part of the country that allows the impacted branch the ability to communicate through the contingency branch. we have self-insurance risks our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks including most significantly: property and casualty, workers' compensation, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others. risks related to our regulatory environment recent changes in regulations under the dodd-frank act may affect our businesses recent market and economic conditions have led to new legislation and numerous proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional legislation and regulation in the united states and abroad. the dodd-frank act calls for sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide for greater protections to individual consumers and investors. certain elements of the dodd-frank act became effective immediately, though the details of many provisions are subject to additional studies and will not be known until final rules are adopted by applicable regulatory agencies. the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy cannot be known until all such rules and regulations called for under the dodd-frank act have been finalized. the dodd-frank act may impact the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and its operations and interact with regulators, all of which while not currently anticipated to, could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that may impact our business include but are not limited to: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers, the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading and restrictions on proprietary trading. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact busi ness, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. 21 we operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition the securities industry is subject to extensive regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business. if laws or regulations are violated, we could be subject to one or more of the following: civil liability, criminal liability, sanctions which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors, censures, fines or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action th at redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors, and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. our banking operations also expose us to a risk of loss resulting from failure to comply with banking laws. our banking operations may be required to increase its regulatory capital and be required to pay even higher fdic premiums, including additional special assessments, due to the continued impact market developments have had on the insurance fund of the fdic. proposals for further regulation of financial institutions, both domestically and internationally, include calls to increase their capital and liquidity requirements; limit the size and types of the activities permitted; and increase taxes on some institutions. the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the investment company act of 1940, with respect to how mutual funds collect and pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares. the proposed changes are subject to public comment and, following any enactment, would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, the impact of changes such as those currently proposed cannot be predicted at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. we may also be adversely affected as a result of other changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. see the section entitled business regulation within item 1 of this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operation, or cause us serious reputational harm. failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements would significantly harm our business we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of finra, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. in addition, our canadian-based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction. rj bank is subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, rj bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rj bank's assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. rj bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and tier i capital to risk-weighted assets and tier i capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). f ailure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that if undertaken, could harm rj bank's operations and our financial condition. see note 22 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements within this report for further information on regulations and capital requirements. 22 as rjf is a holding company, we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments of our obligations including, among others, debt service. these regulatory restrictions may impede access to funds our holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by new regulations to which we expect to become subject as a result of becoming a financial holding company in september 2008, we announced that we would seek approval from the frb to become a bank holding company and subsequently elect to become a financial holding company; our application remains pending. although we have a statutory grace period of two years, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years, to conform existing activities and investments to the restrictions on nonbanking activities that apply to financial holding companies, and although we expect to be able to continue to engage in the vast majority of the activities in which we currently engage after such time, it is possible that certain of our existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible under applicable regulations. in addition, as a financial holding company, we will become subject to the compreh ensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the frb, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements, and, as a nationally chartered commercial bank, rj bank will become subject to regulation (including periodic examinations) by the occ. see the section entitled business regulation of item 1 of this report for additional information. risks related to our common stock the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile the market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be more volatile than in prior years and subject to fluctuations. stocks of financial institutions have experienced significant downward pressure in connection with the recent economic downturn and may again experience such pressures in the future. significant declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could harm our ability to recruit and retain key employees, reduce our access to debt or equity capital and otherwise harm our business or financial condition. our current shareholders may experience dilution in their holdings if we issue additional shares of common stock as a result of future offerings or acquisitions where we use our common stock as part of our business strategy, we may seek opportunities for growth through strategic acquisitions, in which we may consider issuing equity securities as part of the consideration. additionally, we may obtain additional capital through the public sale of equity securities. if we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. moreover, if we issue additional shares of common stock in connection with equity compensation, future acquisitions or as a result of financing, investor's ownership interest in our company will be diluted. the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales or issuance of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. our officers, directors and employees own a substantial amount of our common stock and therefore exercise significant control over our corporate governance and affairs, which may result in their taking actions with which other shareholders do not agree our executive officers, directors and employees control approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock (including restricted stock and exercisable stock options which they hold). these shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which may result in corporate action with which other shareholders do not agree. this concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that might affect the market price of our common stock, given that our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all shares outstanding and entitled to vote to approve any of the specified types of business combinations. 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of our business and activities. management of these risks is critical to our fiscal soundness and profitability. our risk management processes are multi-faceted and require communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. we have formalized an enterprise risk management program to assess and review aggregate risks across the firm. additionally, our senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and requires specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the principal risks involved in our business activities are market, credit, liquidity, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is our risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates and security prices. we have exposure to market risk primarily through our broker-dealer and banking operations. our broker-dealer subsidiaries, primarily rj&amp;a, trade tax-exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an active market maker in approximately 665 listed and over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, we maintain inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. rj bank holds investments in mortgage-backed securities and cmos within its available for sale securities portfolio as well as sba loan securitizations not yet transferred. additionally, primarily within our canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, we invest in securities for our own proprietary equity investment acc ount. see notes 3 and 4 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the fair value of trading inventories associated with our broker-dealer client facilitation, market-making and proprietary trading activities in addition to rj bank's securitizations. see note 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the fair value of available for sale securities. changes in value of our trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, credit ratings of the issuer, equity prices and the correlation among these factors. we manage our trading inventory by product type and have established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product type. our primary method of controlling risk in our trading inventory is through the establishment and monitoring of limits on the dollar amount of securities positions that can be entered into and other risk-based limits. limits are established both for categories of securities (e.g., otc equities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds) and for individual traders. as of september 30, 2010, the absolute fixed income and equity inventory limits, excluding the contractual underwriting commitments for our domestic subsidiaries, were $1.97 bil lion and $69.8 million, respectively. the same inventory limits applicable to our canadian broker-dealer subsidiary rj ltd. as of september 30, 2010, were cdn $46.2 million and cdn $74.3 million, respectively. our trading activities in the aggregate were significantly below these limits at september 30, 2010. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. limit violations are carefully monitored. management also monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, we monitor the exposure in our derivatives subsidiary daily based on established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate, spread, ratio, basis, and volatility risk. these exposures are monitored both on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods. in the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. rj&amp;a and rj ltd., as a lead, co-lead or syndicate member in the underwriting deal, may be subject to market risk on any unsold shares issued in the offering to which we are committed. risk exposure is controlled by limiting participation, the deal size or through the syndication process. 62 interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of maintaining trading inventories of fixed income instruments and actively manage this risk using hedging techniques that involve swaps, futures, and u.s. treasury and agency mbs pass-through obligations. we monitor, on a daily basis, the value-at-risk ( var ) in our institutional fixed income trading portfolios (cash instruments and interest rate derivatives). var is a statistical technique for estimating the potential loss in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements over a specified time horizon at a particular confidence level. to calculate var, we use historical simulation. this approach assumes that historical changes in market conditions are representative of future changes. the simulation is based upon daily market data for the previous twelve months. var is reported at a 99% confidence level, based on a one-day time horizon. this means that we could expect to incur losses greater than those predicted by the var estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year on average over the course of time. during the fiscal year ended september 30, 2010, the reported daily loss in the institutional fixed income trading portfolio exceeded the predicted var four times. however, trading losses on a single day could exceed the reported var by significant amounts in unusually volatile markets and might accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. accordingly, we employ additional interest rate risk controls including stress testing, position limits, a daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory, independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk and review of issuer ratings. the following table sets forth the high, low and daily average var for our overall institutional portfolio during the fiscal year ended september 30, 2010, with the corresponding dollar value of our portfolio: year ended september 30, 2010 var at september 30, high low daily average 2010 2009 ($ in 000's) daily var $ 870 $ 247 $ 507 $ 247 $ 710 related portfolio value (net) (1) $ 157,614 $ 239,845 $ 215,677 $ 239,845 $ 180,047 var as a percent of portfolio value 0.55 % 0.10 % 0.28 % 0.10 % 0.39 % (1) portfolio value achieved on the day of the var calculation. the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while we believe that our assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. as a result, var statistics are more reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. see note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative financial instruments. rj ltd.'s net income is sensitive to changes in interest rate conditions. assuming a shift of 100 basis points in interest rates and using interest-bearing asset and liability balances as of september 30, 2010, rj ltd.'s sensitivity analysis indicates that an upward movement would increase rj ltd.'s net income by approximately cdn $3.3 million, whereas a downward shift of the same magnitude would decrease rj ltd.'s net income by approximately cdn $4.3 million. this sensitivity analysis is based on the assumption that all other variables remain constant. rj bank maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of commercial and residential real estate, corporate and consumer loans, as well as mortgage-backed securities, cmos, securities purchased under resale agreements, short-term u.s. treasury bills, sba loan securitizations, deposits at other banks and other investments. those earning assets are funded by rj bank's obligations to customers and fhlb advances. based on the current earning asset portfolio of rj bank, market risk for rj bank is limited primarily to interest rate risk. the current economic environment has led to an extended period of low market interest rates. as a result, the majority of rj bank's adjustable rate assets and liabilities have experienced a reduction in interest rate yields and costs that reflect these very low market intere st rates. during fiscal year 2010, rj bank has focused its interest rate risk analysis on the risk of market interest rates rising should the economic environment begin to improve. rj bank analyzes interest rate risk based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range of interest rate scenarios. 63 one of the objectives of rj bank's asset/liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. the asset/liability management committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rj bank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis, repricing gap analysis and limits, and net portfolio value limits. simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. to ensure that rj bank is within its limits established for net interest income, a sensitivit y analysis of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. rj bank utilizes an internally developed asset/liability model using standard industry software to analyze the available data. the model calculates changes in net interest income by calculating interest income and interest expense from existing assets and liabilities using current repricing, prepayment, and volume assumptions. various interest rate scenarios are modeled in order to determine the effect these scenarios would have on net interest income. the following table displays the results of one of these scenarios, and thus provides an analysis of rj bank's estimated net interest income over a twelve month period based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points): changes in rate net interest income projected change in net interest income ($ in 000s) +300 $253,738 6.40% +200 256,523 7.57% +100 258,363 8.34% - 238,470 -% -100 222,272 (6.79%) the following table presents the amount of rj bank's interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities expected to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the indicated periods at september 30, 2010: repricing opportunities 0 - 6 months 7 12 months 1 5 years 5 or more years (in 000's) interest earning assets: loans $ 4,951,338 $ 671,390 $ 624,139 $ 34,155 available for sale securities 257,802 32,914 109,509 74,813 other investments 3,686,922 - - - total interest-earning assets 8,896,062 704,304 733,648 108,968 interest bearing liabilities: transaction and savings accounts 6,862,142 - - - certificates of deposit 33,131 41,369 143,076 - fhlb advances 2,445,000 - - - total interest-bearing liabilities $ 9,340,273 $ 41,369 $ 143,076 $ - gap $ (444,211 ) $ 662,935 $ 590,572 $ 108,968 cumulative gap $ (444,211 ) $ 218,724 $ 809,296 $ 918,264 64 the following table shows the distribution of those rj bank loans that mature in more than one year between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at september 30, 2010: interest rate type fixed adjustable total (in 000's) commercial loans $ 40,430 $ 563,278 $ 603,708 real estate construction loans (1) - 47,933 47,933 commercial real estate loans (1) 12,893 3,034,762 3,047,655 residential mortgage loans 40,385 1,976,601 2,016,986 consumer loans - 479 479 total loans $ 93,708 $ 5,623,053 $ 5,716,761 (1) of the sum of these amounts, $1 billion is secured by non-owner occupied commercial real estate properties or their repayment is dependent upon the operation or sale of commercial real estate properties as of september 30, 2010. the remainder is wholly or partially secured by real estate, the majority of which is also secured by other assets of the borrower. to mitigate interest rate risk in a significantly rising rate environment, during the year ended september 30, 2008, rj bank purchased three-year term interest rate caps, whose notional value is $1.5 billion, with high strike rates (more than 300 basis points higher than rates in effect as of their date of purchase). these interest rate caps will increase in value if interest rates rise and entitle rj bank to cash flows if interest rates rise above strike rates. rj bank minimizes the credit or repayment risk of derivative instruments by entering into transactions only with high-quality counterparties whose credit rating is investment grade. see note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. equity price risk we are exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of rj&amp;a and rj ltd. the u.s. broker-dealer activities are primarily client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. rj ltd. has a proprietary trading business with 29 traders. the average aggregate inventory held for proprietary trading by rj ltd. during the fiscal year ended september 30, 2010 was cdn $12.5 million. our equity securities inventories are recorded at fair value at each reporting period and there are no material unrecorded gains or losses. we attempt to reduce the risk of loss inherent in our inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly through out each day and establishing position limits. foreign exchange risk we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to financial instruments denominated in u.s. dollars, predominately held by rj ltd. whose functional currency is the canadian dollar, which may be impacted by fluctuation in foreign exchange rates, and our investments in foreign subsidiaries. in order to mitigate the former risk, rj ltd. enters into forward foreign exchange contracts. the fair value of these contracts is nominal. as of september 30, 2010, forward contracts outstanding to buy and sell u.s. dollars totaled cdn $10.9 million and cdn $6.2 million, respectively. to-date, we have elected not to hedge the carrying value of our investments in foreign subsidiaries for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to immateriality, accounting considerations, and the economic cost of hedging particular exposur es. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower's, issuer's or counterparty's ability to meet its financial obligations under contractual or agreed upon terms. the nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure and duration of that transaction, and the parties involved. credit risk is an integral component of the profit assessment of lending and other financing activities. we are engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. we are exposed to risk that these counterparties may not fulfill their obligations. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. we manage this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which may guarantee performance. 65 our client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of our clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure associated with our pcg segment results primarily from customer margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. when clients execute a purchase, we are at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, we may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, most private clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. we monitor exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and perform analysis on a regular basis in connection with our margin lending activities. we adjust our margin requirements if we believe our risk exposure is not appropriate based on mar ket conditions. we are subject to concentration risk if we hold large positions, extend large loans to, or have large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist primarily of securities issued by the u.s. government or its agencies. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. we seek to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. we are exposed to credit risk as a result of our leveraged lease with continental. see the contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies section above for further discussion of this exposure. the valuation of the mortgage-backed securities and non-agency cmos held as available for sale securities by rj bank is impacted by the credit risk associated with the underlying residential loans. underlying loan characteristics associated with this risk are considered in valuing these securities. see note 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information. rj bank has significant corporate and residential loan portfolios. a significant downturn in the overall economy, deterioration in real estate values or a significant issue within any sector where rj bank has significant exposure could result in large provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs. rj bank's strategy for credit risk management includes conservative and well-defined credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all corporate, residential and consumer credit exposures. the strategy also includes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of all corporate loans and individual delinquent residential and consumer loans. the credit risk management process also includes an annual independent review of the credit risk monitoring process that performs assessments of compliance with corporate, residential and consumer credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit information. rj bank seeks to identify potential problem loans early, record any necessary risk rating changes and char ge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan losses. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is composed of approximately 280 borrowers, all of which are underwritten, managed and reviewed at rj bank's corporate headquarters location, which facilitates close monitoring of the portfolio by credit risk personnel, relationship officers and senior rj bank executives. rj bank utilizes a comprehensive credit risk rating system to measure the credit quality of individual corporate loans and related unfunded lending commitments, including the probability of default and/or loss given default of each corporate loan and commitment outstanding. in evaluating credit risk, rj bank considers trends in loan performance, industry or customer concentrations, the loan portfolio composition, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions and macroeconomic factors. during the fiscal year corporate profit levels have improved but have remained weak as compared to historical levels. unemployment rates have remained high. retail sales have been sluggish and credit quality trends, while improved in some sectors, remain somewhat tenuous. all of these factors have a potentially negative impact on loan performance. however, during the year, corporate borrowers have continued to access the markets for new equity and debt. the further decline in residential home values in certain geographies has continued to have a significant adverse impact on residential mortgage loan performance. these factors have negatively affected, and may continue to adversely impact, our provision for loan losses and net charge-offs. 66 several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the allowance for loan losses at september 30, 2010, including the risk profile of the portfolios, net charge-offs during the period, the level of nonperforming loans, and delinquency ratios. rj bank also considered the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors and the extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. beginning in fiscal year 2010, rj bank further stratified the performing residential loan portfolio based upon updated ltv estimates with higher reserve percentages allocated to the higher ltv loans. finally, rj bank considered current economic conditions that might impact the portfolio. rj bank determined the allowance that was required for specific loan grades based on relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. on an ongoing basis, rj bank evaluates its methods for determining the allowance for each element of the portfolio and makes enhancements considered appropriate. changes in the allowance for loan losses of rj bank were as follows: year ended september 30, 2010 2009 2008 ($ in 000's) allowance for loan losses, beginning of period $ 150,272 $ 88,155 $ 47,022 provision for loan losses 80,413 169,341 54,749 net charge-offs (83,601 ) (107,224 ) (13,616 ) allowance for loan losses, end of period $ 147,084 $ 150,272 $ 88,155 allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding 2.36 % 2.23 % 1.23 % the primary factors impacting the provision for loan losses during the current year were increased delinquencies in the residential loan portfolio resulting from the prolonged challenging economic conditions (which included the high unemployment rate), continued relatively high levels of nonperforming corporate loans, increased reserve rates for criticized commercial real estate loans and, to a lesser extent, the further stratification of the performing residential portfolio based upon updated ltv estimates with higher reserve percentages allocated to the higher ltv loans. the large prior year provision was primarily attributable to increased reserves and charge-offs due to the then rapid deterioration of the credit markets, a significant decline in commercial real estate values, and an increase in projected loss experience on residential mortgage loans, and included one $28 million corporate loan. the following table presents net loan charge-offs and the percentage of these net loan charge-offs to the average outstanding loan balances by loan category for the years ended september 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008: for the year ended september 30, 2010 2009 2008 net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans (in $000's) corporate $ (54,053 ) 1.28 % $ (80,538 ) 1.69 % $ (10,169 ) 0.26 % residential (29,548 ) 1.33 % (26,686 ) 0.98 % (3,447 ) 0.15 % total $ (83,601 ) 1.30 % $ (107,224 ) 1.43 % $ (13,616 ) 0.22 % the level of charge-off activity is a factor that is considered in evaluating the potential for and severity of future credit losses. corporate charge-offs decreased during the year ended september 30, 2010. the current year corporate charge-offs included $12.5 million related to the sale of distressed debt in the secondary market with the balance taken almost exclusively on commercial and residential real estate loans. corporate charge-offs in the prior year included $12.1 million related to the sale of rj bank's largest nonperforming loan at the time. a $2.9 million increase in residential/consumer charge-offs during the year resulted from the continued high level of residential delinquencies and declines in home values in many markets. 67 the table below presents nonperforming loans and total allowance for loan losses by loan category at september 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008: as of september 30, 2010 2009 2008 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance (in 000's) corporate $ 67,901 $ (112,708 ) $ 86,422 $ (122,096 ) $ 37,462 $ (79,404 ) residential 86,082 (34,376 ) 71,960 (28,176 ) 20,702 (8,751 ) total $ 153,983 $ (147,084 ) $ 158,382 $ (150,272 ) $ 58,164 $ (88,155 ) the level of nonperforming loans is another indicator of potential future credit losses. the amount of nonperforming loans decreased 3% during the year ended september 30, 2010. corporate nonperforming loans decreased $18.5 million primarily due to the return of three loans to performing status, the default and subsequent foreclosure of three commercial real estate loans, repayments, sales, and charge-offs, and the partial offset from the addition of four commercial real estate loans. this improvement in corporate nonperforming loans was partially offset by an increase of $14.1 million in nonperforming residential loans due to the ongoing economic impact of residential delinquencies. included in nonperforming residential/consumer loans are $68.7 million in loans for which $37.3 million in charge-offs were previously recorded. loan underwriting policies a component of rj bank's credit risk management strategy is conservative, well-defined policies and procedures. rj bank's underwriting policies for the major types of loans are: residential and consumer loan portfolio rj bank's residential loan portfolio consists of first mortgage loans originated by rj bank via referrals from our pcg financial advisors and first mortgage loans purchased by rj bank originated by select large financial institutions. these purchased mortgage loans represent approximately 90% of rj bank's residential loan portfolio. all of rj bank's residential loans adhere to strict underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of the borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). on average, three-fourths of the purchased residential loans are re-underwritten with new credit information and valuations, if warranted, by rj bank staff prior to purchase, with the remainder coming from long-standing sources and meeting extremely high credit criter ia. approximately 90% of the residential loans are fully documented loans to owner-occupant borrowers for their primary or second home residences. virtually all of rj bank's residential loans are adjustable rate mortgage ( arm ) loans. approximately 60% of first lien residential mortgage loans are arms with interest-only payments based on a fixed-rate for an initial period of the loan, typically 3-5 years, then become fully amortizing, subject to annual and lifetime interest rate caps. rj bank does not originate or purchase option arm loans with negative amortization, reverse mortgages, or other types of exotic loan products. loans with deeply discounted teaser rates are not originated or purchased. originated 15 or 30-year fixed-rate mortgages are typically sold to correspondents and only retained on an exception basis. all of rj bank's first mortgage loans are serviced by the seller or by third-parties. rj bank's consumer loan portfolio is comprised of personal loans and various credit lines. the consumer loan portfolio represents less than 1% of rj bank's total loan portfolio. the underwriting policy for rj bank's consumer loans includes a review of repayment history, the debt-to-income ratio of the borrower and the collateral for secured loans. while rj bank has chosen not to participate in any government-sponsored loan modification programs, our loan modification policy does take into consideration some of these programs' parameters and supports every effort to assist borrowers within the guidelines of safety and soundness. in general, rj bank considers the qualification terms outlined in the government-sponsored programs as well as the affordability test and other factors. rj bank retains flexibility to determine the appropriate modification structure and requires documentation to support the borrower's current financial situation before approving modification. 68 corporate loan portfolio rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is diversified among a number of industries and comprised of project finance real estate loans, commercial lines of credit and term loans, the majority of which (approximately 90%), are participations in snc or other large syndicated loans. the sncs are loan syndications totaling over $20 million that are shared between three or more regulated institutions. rj bank is sometimes involved in the syndication of the loan at inception and some of these loans have been purchased in secondary trading markets. as the process for evaluating the sncs is consistent with the process for the other corporate loans in the portfolio, there is no additional risk with the sncs as compared to any other loan in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. in addition, all corporate loans are subject to rj bank's re gulatory review by the ots, the regulator of rj bank. the remainder of the corporate loan portfolio is comprised of smaller participations and direct loans. regardless of the source, all loans are independently underwritten to rj bank credit policies, are subject to loan committee approval, and credit quality is continually monitored by rj bank's corporate lending staff. rj bank credit policies include criteria related to ltv limits based upon property type, single borrower loan limits, loan term and structure parameters (including guidance on leverage and debt service coverage ratios), industry concentration limits, secondary sources of repayment and other criteria. a large portion of rj bank's corporate loans are to borrowers in industries in which we have expertise, through coverage provided by our capital markets research analysts. more than half of rj bank's corporate borrowers are public companies. rj bank's corporate loans are generally secured by all assets of the borrower and in some ins tances are secured by mortgages on specific real estate. in a limited number of transactions, loans in the portfolio are extended on an unsecured basis. there are no subordinated loans or mezzanine financings in the corporate loan portfolio. risk monitoring process another component of our credit risk strategy at rj bank is our ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all residential, consumer and corporate credit exposures. there are various factors included in these processes, depending on the loan portfolio. residential and consumer loans we track and review many factors to monitor credit risk in rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio. these factors include, but are not limited to: loan performance trends, loan product parameters and qualification requirements, geographic concentrations, borrower credit scores, updated ltv ratios, occupancy (i.e. owner occupied, second home or investment property), level of documentation, loan purpose, average loan size, and policy exceptions. residential mortgage and consumer loan delinquency levels have been increasing at rj bank due to the current economic downturn and the high level of unemployment. at september 30, 2010, loans over 30 days delinquent (including nonperforming loans) increased to 4.44% of residential and consumer loans outstanding, compared to 3.62% over 30 days delinquent at september 30, 2009 and 1.02% at september 30, 2008. however, our september 30, 2010 percentage compares favorably to the national average for over 30 day delinquencies of 10.73% as most recently reported by the federal reserve. the following table presents a summary of delinquent residential and consumer loans at september 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008: delinquent residential and consumer loans (amount) delinquent residential and consumer loans as a percentage of outstanding loan balances september 30, september 30, 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 ($ in 000's) 30-89 days $ 24,441 $ 19,767 $ 7,087 1.20 % 0.82 % 0.27 % 90 days or more 65,897 67,640 19,507 3.24 % 2.80 % 0.75 % 69 to manage and limit credit losses, we maintain a rigorous process to manage our loan delinquencies. with all whole loans purchased on a servicing-retained basis and all originated first mortgages serviced by a third-party, the primary collection effort resides with the servicer. rj bank personnel direct and actively monitor the servicers' efforts through extensive communications regarding individual loan status changes and requirements of timely and appropriate collection or property management actions and reporting, including management of other third-parties used in the collection process (appraisers, attorneys, etc.). additionally, every residential and consumer loan over 60 days past due is reviewed by rj bank personnel monthly and documented in a written report detailing delinquency information, balances, collection statu s, appraised value, and other data points. rj bank senior management meets monthly to discuss the status, collection strategy and charge-off/write-down recommendations on every residential or consumer loan over 60 days past due. updated collateral valuations are obtained for loans over 90 days past due and charge-offs are taken on individual loans based upon these valuations. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the residential mortgage portfolio. the geographic concentrations (top five states) of rj bank's one-to-four family residential mortgage loans are as follows : september 30, 2010 (1) september 30, 2009 (2) ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 4.8% ca (3) 6.1% ca 3.2% fl 4.3% ny 3.2% ny 3.5% fl 1.5% nj 1.9% nj 1.2% va 1.4% va (1) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $7.3 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2010 exclude $3.5 billion in qualifying assets funded by approximately $700 million of additional rjbdp deposits, approximately $400 million in deposits from affiliates and a $2.4 billion overnight fhlb advance. the deposits from affiliates were withdrawn and the fhlb advance was repaid on october 1, 2010. the additional rjbdp deposits were redirected to other rjbdp participating banks during early october 2010. the non-gaap financial measure provided loan portfolio concentration ratios which are more representative of rj bank's ongoing asset levels. had a gaap measure of total assets been used in the calculation of these ratios, the r esulting percentages for ca, fl, ny, nj and va as of september 30, 2010 would have been 3.3%, 2.2%, 2.1%, 1.0% and 0.8%, respectively, and would have understated the actual concentrations used in rj bank's credit risk analysis. (2) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $7.9 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2009 exclude short-term qualifying investments purchased with $2.3 billion of proceeds from additional deposits received through the rjbdp, the majority of which were redirected to other rjbdp participating banks in october 2009, and a $900 million fhlb advance which was repaid on october 1, 2009. the non-gaap financial measure provided loan portfolio concentration ratios which are more representative of rj bank's ongoing asset levels. had a gaap measure of total assets been used in the calculation of these ratios, the resulting percentages for ca, ny, fl, nj and va as of september 30, 2009 would have been 4.3%, 3.0%, 2.5%, 1.4% and 1.0%, respectively, and would have understated the actual concentrations used in rj bank's credit risk analysis. (3) this concentration ratio for the state of california excludes 2.3% at september 30, 2010 for purchased loans that have full repurchase recourse for any delinquent loans. 70 loans where borrowers may be subject to payment increases include adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms that initially require payment of interest only; payments may increase significantly when the interest-only period ends and the loan principal begins to amortize. at september 30, 2010 and 2009, these loans totaled $1.1 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, or approximately 60% and 70% of the residential mortgage portfolio, respectively. a large percentage of these loans were projected to adjust to a lower payment than the current payment, and this percentage is likely to increase in a low interest rate environment. the outstanding balance of interest-only loans at september 30, 2010, based on their contractual terms, are scheduled to reprice as follows (in 000's): september 30, 2010 one year or less $ 458,530 over one year through two years 314,220 over two years through three years 145,537 over three years through four years 123,404 over four years through five years 57,778 over five years 14,660 total outstanding residential interest-only loan balance $ 1,114,129 a component of credit risk management for the residential portfolio is the ltv and borrower credit score at origination or purchase. the ltv/fico scores of rj bank's residential first mortgage loan portfolio are as follows: september 30, 2010 2009 residential first mortgage loan weighted-average ltv/fico (1) 65% / 751 64% / 751 (1) at origination. small group of local loans representing less than 0.5% of residential portfolio excluded. in addition, rj bank obtains the most recently available information to estimate current ltv ratios on the individual loans in the residential portfolio. current ltv's are estimated based on the initial appraisal obtained at the time of origination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing price changes that have occurred since origination. the value of the homes could vary from actual market values due to change in the condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price changes within metropolitan statistical areas and other factors. rj bank estimates that residential loans with ltv's between 100% and 120% represent approximately 15% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio and residential loans with ltv's in excess of 120% represent approximately 8% of the residential mortgage portfolio. the average estimated ltv is approximately 80% for the total residential loan portfolio. credit risk management for the residential portfolio utilizes this data in conjunction with delinquency statistics, loss experience and economic circumstances to establish appropriate allowance for loan losses for the residential mortgage portfolio, which is based upon an estimate for the probability of default and loss given default for each homogeneous class of loans. corporate loans credit risk in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is monitored on an individual loan basis for trends in borrower operational performance, payment history, credit ratings, collateral performance, loan covenant compliance and other factors including industry performance and concentrations. as part of the credit review process the loan grade is reviewed at least quarterly to confirm the appropriate risk rating for each credit. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies , in this report for additional information on rj bank's risk monitoring process for the corporate loan portfolio. at september 30, 2010, there was one commercial real estate loan of $4.3 million, in addition to loans classified as nonperforming, that were delinquent greater than 30 days. 71 credit risk is also managed by diversifying the corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's corporate portfolio does not contain a significant concentration in any single industry. the industry concentrations (top five categories) of rj bank's corporate loans at september 30, 2010 and 2009 were as follows: september 30, 2010 (1) september 30, 2009 (2) ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 4.3% consumer products and services 3.7% healthcare (excluding hospitals) 4.1% telecommunications 3.5% retail real estate 3.2% hospitality 3.3% telecommunications 2.8% retail real estate 3.3% media communications 2.6% hospitals 3.1% office properties (1) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $7.3 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2010 exclude $3.5 billion in qualifying assets funded by approximately $700 million of additional rjbdp deposits, approximately $400 million in deposits from affiliates and a $2.4 billion overnight fhlb advance. the deposits from affiliates were withdrawn and the fhlb advance was repaid on october 1, 2010. the additional rjbdp deposits were redirected to other rjbdp participating banks during early october 2010. the non-gaap financial measure provided loan portfolio concentration ratios which are more representative of rj bank's ongoing asset levels. had a gaap measure of total assets been used in the calculation of these ratios, the r esulting percentages for consumer products and services, telecommunications, hospitality, retail real estate, and hospitals would have been 2.9%, 2.8%, 2.2%, 1.9% and 1.7%, respectively, and would have understated the actual concentrations used in rj bank's credit risk analysis. (2) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $7.9 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2009 exclude short-term qualifying investments purchased with $2.3 billion of proceeds from additional deposits received through the rjbdp, the majority of which were redirected to other rjbdp participating banks in october 2009, and a $900 million fhlb advance which was repaid on october 1, 2009. the non-gaap financial measure provided loan portfolio concentration ratios which are more representative of rj bank's ongoing asset levels. had a gaap measure of total assets been used in the calculation of these ratios, the resulting percentages for healthcare, retail real estate, telecommunications, media communications and office properties would have been 2.6 %, 2.5%, 2.4%, 2.3% and 2.2%, respectively, and would have understated the actual concentrations used in rj bank's credit risk analysis. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information. liquidity risk see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources , in this report for more information regarding our liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in our technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in our control processes. we operate different businesses in diverse markets and are reliant on the ability of our employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes and complexity. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, we could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reput ation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, we have developed and continue to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that our various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to either us or our customers. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout our operations. 72 a quality of markets committee meets regularly to monitor the best execution activities of our trading departments as they relate to customer orders. this committee is comprised of representatives from the otc trading, listed trading, options, municipal trading, taxable trading, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of one of our senior officers. this committee reviews reports from the respective departments listed above and recommends action for improvement when necessary. regulatory and legal risk legal risk includes the risk of pcg customer claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct business. regulatory oversight of the financial services industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and we, as well as others in the industry, have been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. we have comprehensive procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of customer funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money laundering and record keeping. we have designated anti-money laundering officers in each of our subsidiaries who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act. we act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, we have financial and legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives review proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. our banking activities are highly regulated and subject to impact from changes in banking laws and regulations, including unanticipated rulings. present economic conditions have led to rapid introduction of significant regulatory programs or changes affecting consumer protection and disclosure requirements, financial reporting, and planned regulatory restructuring. regulatory requirements including recent changes to consumer and mortgage lending regulations, as well as new regulatory or government programs, are closely monitored and acted upon to ensure a timely response. see further discussion of our risks associated with the recent dodd-frank act in item 1a, risk factors . our major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. we have a number of outstanding claims as a result of market conditions and the illiquidity of ars. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, we do, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion of our accounting reserve policy discussed in the loss provisions arising from legal proceedings section of "critical accounting policies" contained within item 7, management's discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations , and also refer to the discussion of ars matters in item 3, "legal proceedings". 73risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. 14 risks related to our business and industry we are affected by difficult conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions generally. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are affected by economic and political conditions. these conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors that may be detrimental to our operating results, including the inflation rate, the related impact on the securities markets including changes in volume, interest spreads and price levels of securities, fluctuations in interest and currency rates, reduced investor confidence, and a slowdown in economic activity. these conditions historically have impacted our trading volume and net revenues and affected our profitability. additionally, a decline in the strength of the u.s. economy can lead to deterioration in credit quality and decreased loan demand. continued or further credit dislocations or sustained market downturns may result in a decrease in the volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in the value of securities we hold in inventory as assets, and potentially reduced investment banking revenues given that associated fees are directly related to the number and size of transactions in which we participate. in addition, declines in the market value of securities generally result in a decline in revenues from fees based on the asset values of client portfolios, and may result in the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations, as well as the failure of our clients to fulfill their credit and settlement obligations. also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client accounts margin purchases may drop below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these loans, we may lose money on these margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. on august 5, 2011, the credit rating agency standard &amp; poor's ( s&amp;p ) lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the u.s. from aaa to aa+, while maintaining a negative outlook. while u.s. lawmakers reached agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling on august 2, 2011, the downgrade reflected s&amp;p's view that the fiscal consolidation plan within that agreement fell short of what would be necessary to stabilize the u.s. government's medium term debt dynamics. the two other major credit rating agencies did not downgrade their previously issued u.s. sovereign credit ratings. future downgrades of the u.s. sovereign credit rating by one or more of the major credit rating agencies could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the u.s. and throughout the world and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. because of the unprecedented nature of any negative credit rating actions with respect to u.s. government obligations, the ultimate impacts on global markets and our business, financial condition and liquidity are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent. continued declines in the real estate market over the past few years, with increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as commercial and investment banks. these write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have in turn caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. rj bank is particularly affected by domestic economic conditions. such conditions include: u.s. interest rates, the rate of unemployment, real estate prices, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. the deterioration of these conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect corporate loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the u.s., non-u.s. governments, and international agencies. the frb regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. frb policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in frb policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. as described in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations- liquidity and capital resources, a worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 15 lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. a compromise to our liquidity could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include illiquid or volatile markets, diminished access to debt or equity markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements and adverse legal settlements or judgments. our broker-dealer and bank subsidiaries operate in highly regulated industries. these subsidiaries may require access to funds in order to meet certain capital and regulatory requirements. therefore, these subsidiaries may, in some instances, not be able to pay dividends to fund the obligations of the parent including debt obligations and dividend payments. if existing sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional outside financing or scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders and reducing our operating expenses. the availability of outside financing, including access to the capital markets and bank lending, depends on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector and our credit ratings. our cost and availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. as a result of any future concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease, to provide funding to borrowers. a reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain financial agreements. as such, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources, for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we are exposed to market risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and venture capital and merchant banking investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. certain of our venture capital and merchant banking investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets do not meet their performance obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealer businesses exposing us to credit risk in the event of default. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face the risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold securities and derivatives in our trading accounts. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to derivative contracts could result in trading losses. 16 we borrow securities from and lend securities to other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and agreements to resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and impact financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals including, but not limited to, c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities as well as by investing in mbs and cmos. the credit quality of our loan and investment portfolios held at rj bank can have a significant impact on earnings and overall financial performance. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated to borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and the level of regulatory capital at rj bank. continued declines in the real estate market or a sustained economic downturn may cause us to have to further write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of rj bank's available for sale securities portfolio. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products and on fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive reduced fees from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management. assets under management balances are impacted by net inflow/outflow of client assets and market values. below market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impacting our business and financial condition. if we experience losses of managed accounts, our fee revenue will decline. in addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues. our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, we may incur losses as a result of proprietary positions we hold. from time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results. 17 we have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. there is risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. as a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. we have experienced increased pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. in recent years, our business has experienced increased pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. growth of our business could increase costs and regulatory risks. we may incur significant expenses in connection with expansion of our existing businesses or recruitment of financial advisors or in connection with strategic acquisitions or investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such investment or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal controls procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. 18 we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services and location and reputation in local markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our employees and financial advisors. as such, to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. domestic commercial banks and investment banking boutique firms have entered the broker-dealer business, and large international banks are now serving our markets as well. legislative and regulatory initiatives which eased restrictions on the sales of securities and underwriting activities by commercial banks have increased competition. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms, hedge funds, and others. this increased competition could cause our business to suffer. competition for personnel within the financial services industry is intense. the cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably, as competition for these professionals has intensified. employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry increases, we may have to devote significantly more resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. in addition, the adoption of new internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to enhance or adapt our services or infrastructure. an inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. if we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could harm our business prospects. these issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. 19 we are exposed to operational risk. our diverse operations are exposed to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. our businesses depend on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards, business disruption or system failures and failed transaction processing. also, increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. our businesses depend on technology. our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables the firm to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients and damage to our reputation. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service ( ddos ) attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our own or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our own, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. extraordinary trading volumes beyond reasonably foreseeable spikes in volumes, could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. while we have made investments to upgrade the reliability and scalability of our systems and added hardware to address extraordinary volumes, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle truly extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances. systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels for client service and client satisfactions and harm to our reputation. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing these types of operational risk. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted from our southfield, michigan location (see item 1, business in this report), our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications and the ability of our associates to get to our offices or work from home. 20 we are exposed to litigation risks. many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, arising from the normal course of business. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our employees could result in substantial liability for us. advisors may not understand investor needs or risk tolerances. such failures may result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. to the extent we fail to know our customers or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such customers, which could harm our reputation and business. our private client group business segment has historically had more risk of litigation than our institutional businesses. in highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives (including auction rate securities), the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions, contractual issues, employment claims and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and our prospects. see item 3, legal proceedings of this report for a discussion of our legal matters and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report regarding our approach to managing legal risk. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. conditions in the real estate and credit markets increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting policies, for additional information on the nature of these estimates. certain of our financial instruments including certain trading assets and liabilities, certain available for sale securities, certain loans and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on our judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. from time to time the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and the sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for a further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting policies discussion within item 7 of this report and note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 21 our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. a failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. we have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the failure to adequately address or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report. we are exposed to risk from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world, including a few developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets and, as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, reputational, litigation and regulatory risks, in non-u.s. markets. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and/or our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from the trading of non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because generally non-u.s. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than u.s. trading markets. additionally, a political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact our business and increase volatility in financial markets generally. we have risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly: property and casualty, workers' compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, insurance claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. 22 risks related to our regulatory environment changes in regulations resulting from either the dodd-frank act or any new regulations may affect our businesses. the market and economic conditions over the past few years have led to relatively new legislation and numerous and continuing proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional legislation and regulation in the u.s. and abroad. the dodd-frank act enacted sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide for greater protections to individual consumers and investors. certain elements of the dodd-frank act became effective immediately, while the details of many provisions are subject to additional studies and final rule writing by various applicable regulatory agencies. the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy cannot be known until all such rules and regulations called for under the dodd-frank act have been finalized and implemented. the dodd-frank act may impact the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and its operations and interact with regulators, all of which while not currently anticipated to, could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers, regulatory oversight of incentive compensation, the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading and restrictions on proprietary trading. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. additionally, we are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the volcker rule. the volcker rule is a specific part of the dodd-frank act originally proposed to restrict u.s. banks from making certain kinds of speculative investments that do not benefit their customers. when the regulations are final, we will be in a position to complete a review of our relevant activities to make plans to implement compliance with the volcker rule, which will likely not require full conformance until july 2014, subject to extensions. we operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the securities industry is subject to extensive regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, anti-money laundering efforts, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. if laws or regulations are violated, we could be subject to one or more of the following: civil liability, criminal liability, sanctions which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors, censures, fines or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. our banking operations also expose us to a risk of loss resulting from failure to comply with banking laws. our banking operations may be required to increase its regulatory capital and be required to pay even higher fdic premiums, including special assessments, due to the impact market developments over the past few years have had on the insurance fund of the fdic. as a holding company of rj bank, we are subject to regulation by the frb. this regulatory oversight includes, but is not limited to, scrutiny with respect to transactions between our domestic subsidiary bank and its affiliates as well as examination of our activities for potential conflicts of interest through detailed review of specific transactions. 23 the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the investment company act of 1940, with respect to how mutual funds collect and pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares. the proposed changes are subject to public comment which ended november 5, 2010 and, following any adoption which the sec staff has stated will not occur until 2012, would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, the impact of changes such as those currently proposed cannot be predicted at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. we may also be adversely affected as a result of other changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. see the section entitled business regulation within item 1 of this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operation or cause us serious reputational harm. failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements would significantly harm our business. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of finra, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. in addition, our canada based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction. rj bank is subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by bank regulators. under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, rj bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rj bank's assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. rj bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and tier i capital to risk-weighted assets and tier i capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm rj bank's operations and our financial condition. as rjf is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments of its obligations including, among others, debt service. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds the holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. see note 22 of the notes to consolidated financial statements within this report for further information on regulations and capital requirements. our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by new regulations to which we expect to become subject as a result of becoming a financial holding company. in september 2008, we announced that we would seek approval from the frb to become a bank holding company and subsequently elect to become a financial holding company; rj bank's application to convert its charter to that of a nationally chartered bank is still pending approval. we anticipate approval of the application to convert rj bank's charter before the end of the calendar year. rjf re-filed its application to become a bank holding company at the request of the frb in november, 2011. we anticipate approval before the end of the calendar year. although we have a statutory grace period of two years, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years, to conform existing activities and investments to the restrictions on nonbanking activities that apply to financial holding companies, and although we expect to be able to continue to engage in the vast majority of the activities in which we currently engage after such time, it is possible that certain of our existing activities will be deemed to be impermissible under applicable regulations. in addition, as a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the frb, we will become subject to the frb's risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements. see the section entitled business regulation of item 1 of this report for additional information. 24 risks related to our common stock the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to fluctuations. stocks of financial institutions have experienced significant downward pressure in connection with recent economic conditions and may again experience such pressures in the future. changes in the stock market generally or as it concerns our industry, as well as geopolitical, economic and business factors unrelated to us, may also affect our stock price. significant declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could harm our ability to recruit and retain key employees, reduce our access to debt or equity capital and otherwise harm our business or financial condition. our current shareholders may experience dilution in their holdings if we issue additional shares of common stock as a result of future offerings or acquisitions where we use our common stock. as part of our business strategy, we may seek opportunities for growth through strategic acquisitions in which we may consider issuing equity securities as part of the consideration. additionally, we may obtain additional capital through the public sale of equity securities. if we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. moreover, if we issue additional shares of common stock in connection with equity compensation, future acquisitions, or as a result of financing, an investor's ownership interest in our company will be diluted. the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales or issuance of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. our officers, directors and employees own a substantial amount of our common stock and therefore exercise significant control over our corporate governance and affairs, which may result in their taking actions with which other shareholders do not agree. our executive officers, directors and employees control approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock (including restricted stock and exercisable stock options which they hold). these shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which may result in corporate action with which other shareholders do not agree. this concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that might affect the market price of our common stock, given that our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all shares outstanding and entitled to vote to approve any of the specified types of business combinations. 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of our business and activities. management of these risks is critical to our fiscal soundness and profitability. our risk management processes are multi-faceted and require communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. we have a formal enterprise risk management program to assess and review aggregate risks across the firm. additionally, our senior management takes an active role in the risk management process and requires specific administrative and business functions to assist in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the principal risks involved in our business activities are market, credit, liquidity, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is our risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates and security prices. we have exposure to market risk primarily through our broker-dealer and banking operations. our broker-dealer subsidiaries, primarily rj&amp;a, trade tax-exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an active market maker in over 900 listed and over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, we maintain inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. rj bank holds investments in mbs and cmos within its available for sale securities portfolio as well as small business administration ( sba ) loan securitizations not yet transferred. we hold certain ars in a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf. additionally, primarily within our canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, we invest in securities for our own proprietary equity investment account. see notes 3 and 4 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the fair value of trading inventories associated with our broker-dealer client facilitation, market-making and proprietary trading activities in addition to rj bank's securitizations. see note 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the fair value of available for sale securities. changes in value of our trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, issuers' perceived or actual ability to meet their repayment obligations, equity prices, conditions impacting the economy as a whole, and the correlation among these factors. we manage our trading inventory by product type and have established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product type. our primary method of controlling risk in our trading inventory is through the establishment and monitoring of limits on the dollar amount of securities positions that can be entered into and other risk-based limits. limits are established both for categories of securities (e.g., otc equities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds) and for individual traders. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. limit violations are carefully monitored. management also monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, we monitor the exposure in our derivatives subsidiary daily based on established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate, spread, ratio, basis, and volatility risk. these exposures are monitored both on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods. in the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. rj&amp;a and rj ltd., as a lead, co-lead or syndicate member in the underwriting deal, may be subject to market risk on any unsold shares issued in the offering to which we are committed. risk exposure is controlled by limiting participation, the deal size or through the syndication process. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of our rj bank operations, as well as our trading inventories of fixed income instruments held in our capital markets segment. we actively manage our interest rate risk arising from our inventories of fixed income securities through the use of hedging techniques that involve swaps, futures and u.s. treasury obligations. we monitor, on a daily basis, the value-at-risk ( var ) in our institutional fixed income trading portfolios (cash instruments and interest rate derivatives). var is an appropriate statistical technique for estimating the potential loss in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements over a specified time horizon with a suitable confidence level. to calculate var, we use historical simulation. this approach assumes that historical changes in market conditions are representative of future changes. the simulation is based upon daily market data for the previous twelve months. var is reported at a 99% confidence level based on a one-day time horizon. this means that we could expect to incur losses greater than those predicted by the var estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year on average over the course of time. during the year ended september 30, 2011, the reported daily loss in the institutional fixed income trading portfolio exceeded the predicted var one time. 65 however, trading losses on a single day could exceed the reported var by significant amounts in unusually volatile markets and might accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. accordingly, management employs additional interest rate risk controls including position limits, a daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory, independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk, and review of issuer ratings, as well as stress testing. the following tables set forth the high, low, and daily average var for our overall institutional fixed income portfolio with the corresponding dollar value of our portfolio as of the periods and dates indicated: year ended september 30, 2011 var at september 30, high low daily a verage 2011 2010 ($ in thousands) daily var $ 1,049 $ 211 $ 644 $ 441 $ 247 related portfolio value (net) (1) 204,955 299,698 212,648 220,436 239,845 var as a percent of portfolio value 0.51 % 0.07 % 0.31 % 0.20 % 0.10 % (1) portfolio value achieved on the day of the var calculation. the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while management believes that its assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. as a result, var statistics are more reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. in addition, see note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative financial statements. rj bank maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of c&amp;i, commercial and residential real estate, and consumer loans, as well as mbs, cmos, sba loan securitizations, deposits at other banks and other investments. those earning assets are funded by rj bank's obligations to customers. based on the current earning asset portfolio of rj bank, market risk for rj bank is subject to interest rate risk. the current economic environment has led to an extended period of low market interest rates. as a result, the majority of rj bank's adjustable rate assets and liabilities have experienced a reduction in interest rate yields and costs that reflect these very low market interest rates. during the period, rj bank has focused its interest rate risk analysis on the risk of market interest rates rising should the economic environment begin to improve. rj bank analyzes interest rate risk based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range of interest rate scenarios. one of the objectives of rj bank's asset liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. this committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rj bank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis, repricing gap analysis and limits, and net portfolio value and limits. simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. to ensure that rj bank is within its limits established for net interest income, a sensitivity analysis of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. rj bank utilizes an internally developed asset/liability model using standard industry software to analyze the available data. the model calculates changes in net interest income by calculating interest income and interest expense from existing assets and liabilities using current repricing, prepayment, and volume assumptions. various interest rate scenarios are modeled in order to determine the effect those scenarios would have on net interest income. 66 the following table is an analysis of rj bank's estimated net interest income over a 12 month period based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own internal asset/liability model: changes in rate net interest income projected change in net interest income ($ in thousands) +300 $ 314,018 2.02 % +200 317,398 3.12 % +100 317,071 3.02 % - 307,789 - -100 287,719 (6.52 )% the following table presents the amount of rj bank's interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities expected to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the indicated periods at september 30, 2011: repricing opportunities 0 - 6 months 7 - 12 months 1 - 5 years 5 or more years (in thousands) interest-earning assets: loans $ 5,704,839 $ 635,639 $ 336,180 $ 62,588 available for sale securities 177,370 26,859 105,025 61,822 other investments 1,912,713 - - - total interest-earning assets 7,794,922 662,498 441,205 124,410 interest-bearing liabilities: transaction and savings accounts 7,493,982 - - - certificates of deposit 27,941 21,814 195,585 - total interest-bearing liabilities 7,521,923 21,814 195,585 - gap 272,999 640,684 245,620 124,410 cumulative gap $ 272,999 $ 913,683 $ 1,159,303 $ 1,283,713 the following table shows the contractual maturities of rj bank's loan portfolio at september 30, 2011, including contractual principal repayments. this table does not, however, include any estimates of prepayments. these prepayments could shorten the average loan lives and cause the actual timing of the loan repayments to differ significantly from those shown in the following table: due in &gt; one year - one year or less five years &gt; 5 years total (in thousands) loans held for sale $ - $ - $ 92,748 $ 92,748 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 110,566 2,597,386 1,392,987 4,100,939 cre construction loans 22,939 6,148 - 29,087 cre loans 344,451 374,789 23,649 742,889 residential mortgage loans 729 13,191 1,742,566 1,756,486 consumer loans 7,064 374 - 7,438 total loans held for investment 485,749 2,991,888 3,159,202 6,636,839 total loans $ 485,749 $ 2,991,888 $ 3,251,950 $ 6,729,587 67 the following table shows the distribution of the recorded investment of those rj bank loans that mature in more than one year between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at september 30, 2011: interest rate type fixed adjustable total (1) (in thousands) loans held for sale $ 2,712 $ 90,036 $ 92,748 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 3,701 3,986,672 3,990,373 cre construction loans - 6,148 6,148 cre loans 1,722 396,716 398,438 residential mortgage loans 117,023 1,638,734 (2) 1,755,757 consumer loans - 374 374 total loans held for investment 122,446 6,028,644 6,151,090 total loans $ 125,158 $ 6,118,680 $ 6,243,838 (1) excludes any net unearned income and deferred expenses. (2) see the credit risk discussion within item 7a of this form 10-k for additional information regarding rj bank's interest-only loan portfolio and related repricing schedule. equity price risk we are exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of rj&amp;a and rj ltd. the u.s. broker-dealer activities are primarily client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. rj ltd. has a proprietary trading business; the average aggregate inventory held for proprietary trading by rj ltd. during the year ended september 30, 2011 was cdn $15.2 million. we attempt to reduce the risk of loss inherent in our inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. foreign exchange risk we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to financial instruments denominated in u.s. dollars predominantly held by rj ltd., whose functional currency is the canadian dollar, which may be impacted by fluctuation in foreign exchange rates and our investments in foreign subsidiaries. in order to mitigate the former risk, rj ltd. enters into forward foreign exchange contracts. the fair value of these contracts is nominal. as of september 30, 2011, forward contracts outstanding to buy and sell u.s. dollars totaled cdn $2.5 million and cdn $15.1 million, respectively. to date, we have elected not to hedge the carrying value of our investments in foreign subsidiaries. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower's, issuer's or counterparty's ability to meet its financial obligations under contractual or agreed upon terms. the nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure and duration of that transaction, and the parties involved. credit risk is an integral component of the profit assessment of lending and other financing activities. we are engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. we are exposed to risk that these counterparties may not fulfill their obligations. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. we manage this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which may guarantee performance. our client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of our clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure associated with our pcg segment results primarily from customer margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. when clients execute a purchase, we are at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, we may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, most private clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. we monitor exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and perform analysis on a regular basis in connection with our margin lending activities. we adjust our margin requirements if we believe our risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. 68 we are subject to concentration risk if we hold large positions, extend large loans to, or have large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist primarily of securities issued by the u.s. government or its agencies. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. we seek to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. we are exposed to credit risk as a result of our leveraged lease with continental. see the contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies section above for further discussion of this exposure. the valuation of the mortgage-backed securities and non-agency cmos held as available for sale securities by rj bank is impacted by the credit risk associated with the underlying residential loans. underlying loan characteristics associated with this risk are considered in valuing these securities. ars held by a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf is impacted by the credit worthiness of the ars issuer. see note 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information. see notes 1 and 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional disclosures arising from new accounting guidance regarding the credit quality of our financing receivables. rj bank has significant corporate and residential mortgage loan portfolios. a significant downturn in the overall economy, deterioration in real estate values or a significant issue within any sector where rj bank has a significant exposure could result in large provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs. rj bank's strategy for credit risk management includes conservative and well-defined credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all corporate, residential and consumer credit exposures. the strategy also includes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of all corporate loans and individual delinquent residential and consumer loans. the credit risk management process also includes an annual independent review of the credit risk monitoring process that performs assessments of compliance with corporate, residential mortgage and consumer credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit information. rj bank seeks to identify potential problem loans early, reflect any necessary risk rating changes and record charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan losses. in evaluating credit risk, rj bank considers trends in loan performance, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions, industry or customer concentrations, the loan portfolio composition and macroeconomic factors. during fiscal year 2011 corporate profit levels have improved but have remained weak as compared to historic levels. unemployment rates have remained high. retail sales have been sluggish and credit quality trends, while improved in some sectors, remain somewhat tenuous. all of these factors have a potentially negative impact on loan performance. however, during fiscal year 2011, corporate borrowers have continued to access the markets for new equity and debt. the further decline in residential home values in certain geographies has continued to have a significant adverse impact on residential mortgage loan performance. these factors have negatively affected, and may continue to adversely impact, our provision for loan losses and net charge-offs. several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the allowance for loan losses at september 30, 2011, including the risk profile of the portfolios, net charge-offs during the period, the level of nonperforming loans, and delinquency ratios. rj bank also considered the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors and the extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. rj bank further stratified the performing residential loan portfolio based upon updated ltv estimates with higher reserve percentages allocated to the higher ltv loans. finally, rj bank considered current economic conditions that might impact the portfolio. rj bank determined the allowance that was required for specific loan grades based on relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. on an ongoing basis, rj bank evaluates its methods for determining the allowance for each class of loans and makes enhancements it considers appropriate. 69 changes in the allowance for loan losses of rj bank are as follows: year ended september 30, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 ($ in thousands) allowance for loan losses, beginning of period $ 147,084 $ 150,272 $ 88,155 $ 47,022 $ 18,694 provision for loan losses 33,655 80,413 169,341 54,749 29,410 charge-offs: c&amp;i loans (458 ) cre construction loans - - (3,222 ) - (629 ) cre loans (15,204 ) (56,402 ) (77,317 ) (10,169 ) - residential mortgage loans (22,501 ) (30,837 ) (27,314 ) (3,745 ) (454 ) consumer (255 ) - - - - total charge-offs (38,418 ) (87,239 ) (107,853 ) (13,914 ) (1,083 ) recoveries: cre loans 1,670 2,349 1 - - residential mortgage loans 1,744 1,289 628 298 1 consumer 9 - - - - total recoveries 3,423 3,638 629 298 1 net charge-offs (34,995 ) (83,601 ) (107,224 ) (13,616 ) (1,082 ) allowance for loan losses, end of period $ 145,744 $ 147,084 $ 150,272 $ 88,155 $ 47,022 allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding 2.18 % 2.36 % 2.23 % 1.23 % 1.00 % the primary factors impacting the provision for loan losses during fiscal year 2011 were an improvement in the credit quality within the cre portfolio, an improvement in the credit characteristics of certain problem corporate loans, a significant reduction in loan charge-offs and the stabilization of the balance of residential mortgage nonperforming loans. in addition, although the amount of nonperforming loans remains elevated by historical standards, somewhat improved economic conditions relative to the prior year have limited the amount of new problem loans. the current period's provision for loan losses also includes $2 million as a result of the impact of the banking regulators' annual snc exam. the prior period's provision for loan losses included over $8 million in relation to the snc exam results. the following table presents net loan charge-offs and the percentage of net loan charge-offs to the average outstanding loan balances by loan portfolio segment: year ended september 30, 2011 2010 2009 net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (458 ) 0.01 % $ - - $ - - cre construction loans - - - - (3,222 ) 0.96 % cre loans (13,534 ) 1.70 % (54,053 ) 5.56 % (77,316 ) 4.22 % residential mortgage loans (20,757 ) 1.12 % (29,548 ) 1.34 % (26,686 ) 0.99 % consumer loans (246 ) 3.55 % - - - - total $ (34,995 ) 0.56 % $ (83,601 ) 1.30 % $ (107,224 ) 1.43 % the level of charge-off activity is a factor that is considered in evaluating the potential for and severity of future credit losses. the 58% decline in net charge-offs compared to the prior year was primarily attributable to improved credit quality in the cre loan portfolio in addition to a stabilization of the balance in nonperforming residential mortgage loans. 70 the table below presents nonperforming loans and total allowance for loan losses: year ended september 30, 2011 2010 2009 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance (in thousands) loans held for sale $ - $ (5 ) $ - $ (23 ) $ - $ (7 ) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 25,685 (81,267 ) - (60,464 ) - (84,841 ) cre construction loans - (490 ) - (4,473 ) - (3,237 ) cre loans 15,842 (30,752 ) 67,901 (47,771 ) 86,422 (34,018 ) residential mortgage loans 91,796 (33,210 ) 86,082 (34,297 ) 71,960 (28,081 ) consumer loans - (20 ) - (56 ) - (88 ) total $ 133,323 $ (145,744 ) $ 153,983 $ (147,084 ) $ 158,382 $ (150,272 ) the level of nonperforming loans is another indicator of potential future credit losses. the amount of nonperforming loans decreased 13% during the year ended september 30, 2011. this decrease was primarily due to a $52 million reduction in nonperforming cre loans, partially offset by an increase of $26 million in nonperforming c&amp;i loans and an increase of $5 million in nonperforming residential mortgage loans. included in nonperforming residential mortgage loans are $78.1 million in loans for which $43.3 million in charge-offs were previously recorded. loan underwriting policies a component of rj bank's credit risk management strategy is conservative, well-defined policies and procedures. rj bank's underwriting policies for the major types of loans are: residential and consumer loan portfolio rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio consists of first mortgage loans originated by rj bank via referrals from our pcg financial advisors and the general public as well as first mortgage loans purchased by rj bank originated by select large financial institutions. all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to strict underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of the borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). approximately 90% of the residential loans are fully documented loans and 99% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio is to owner-occupant borrowers for their primary or second home residences. virtually all of rj bank's residential loans are adjustable rate mortgage ( arm ) loans. approximately 40% of first lien residential mortgage loans are arms with interest-only payments based on a fixed rate for an initial period of the loan, typically 3-5 years, then become fully amortizing, subject to annual and lifetime interest rate caps. rj bank does not originate or purchase option arm loans with negative amortization, reverse mortgages, or other types of exotic loan products. loans with deeply discounted teaser rates are not originated or purchased. originated 15 or 30-year fixed-rate mortgages are typically sold to correspondents. rj bank's consumer loan portfolio is comprised of personal loans and various credit lines. the consumer loan portfolio represents less than 1% of rj bank's total loan portfolio. the underwriting policy for rj bank's consumer loans includes a review of repayment history, the debt-to-income ratio of the borrower and the collateral for secured loans. while rj bank has chosen not to participate in any government-sponsored loan modification programs, its loan modification policy does take into consideration some of these programs' parameters and supports every effort to assist borrowers within the guidelines of safety and soundness. in general, rj bank considers the qualification terms outlined in the government-sponsored programs as well as the affordability test and other factors. rj bank retains flexibility to determine the appropriate modification structure and requires documentation to support the borrower's current financial situation before approving a modification. 71 corporate loan portfolio rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is diversified among a number of industries and comprised of project finance real estate loans, commercial lines of credit and term loans, the majority of which are participations in snc or other large syndicated loans. rj bank is sometimes involved in the syndication of the loan at inception and some of these loans have been purchased in secondary trading markets. as the process for evaluating the sncs is consistent with the process for the other corporate loans in the portfolio, there is no additional risk with the sncs as compared to any other loan in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. in addition, all corporate loans are subject to rj bank's regulatory review. the remainder of the corporate loan portfolio is comprised of smaller participations and direct loans. regardless of the source, all loans are independently underwritten to rj bank credit policies, are subject to loan committee approval, and credit quality is monitored on an on-going basis by rj bank's corporate lending staff. rj bank credit policies include criteria related to ltv limits based upon property type, single borrower loan limits, loan term and structure parameters (including guidance on leverage and debt service coverage ratios), industry concentration limits, secondary sources of repayment and other criteria. a large portion of rj bank's corporate loans are to borrowers in industries in which we have expertise, through coverage provided by our capital markets research analysts. more than half of rj bank's corporate borrowers are public companies. rj bank's corporate loans are generally secured by all assets of the borrower and in some instances are secured by mortgages on specific real estate. in a limited number of transactions, loans in the portfolio are extended on an unsecured basis. there are no subordinated loans or mezzanine financings in the corporate loan portfolio. risk monitoring process another component of the credit risk strategy at rj bank is the ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all residential, consumer and corporate credit exposures. there are various other factors included in these processes, depending on the loan portfolio. residential mortgage and consumer loans we track and review many factors to monitor credit risk in rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio. these factors include, but are not limited to: loan performance trends, loan product parameters and qualification requirements, geographic concentrations, estimated home price declines, borrower credit scores, updated loan-to-value ( ltv ) ratios, occupancy (i.e. owner occupied, second home or investment property), level of documentation, loan purpose, average loan size, and policy exceptions. residential mortgage and consumer loan delinquency levels had been increasing at rj bank due to the economic downturn and the high level of unemployment. at september 30, 2011, loans over 30 days delinquent (including nonperforming loans) decreased to 4.24% of residential and consumer loans outstanding, compared to 4.44% over 30 days delinquent at september 30, 2010. additionally, our september 30, 2011 percentage compares favorably to the national average for over 30 day delinquencies of 10.18% as most recently reported by the federal reserve. rj bank's significantly lower delinquency rate as compared to its peers is the result of both our conservative underwriting policies and the lack of exotic loan products and subprime loans. the following table presents a summary of delinquent residential and consumer loans: delinquent residential and consumer loans (amount) delinquent residential and consumer loans as a percentage of outstanding loan balances september 30, september 30, 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 ($ in thousands) 30-89 days $ 12,807 $ 24,441 $ 19,767 0.73 % 1.20 % 0.82 % 90 days or more 61,984 65,897 67,640 3.51 % 3.24 % 2.80 % 72 to manage and limit credit losses, we maintain a rigorous process to manage our loan delinquencies. with all whole loans purchased generally on a servicing-retained basis and all originated first mortgages serviced by a third-party, the primary collection effort resides with the servicer. rj bank personnel direct and actively monitor the servicers' efforts through extensive communications regarding individual loan status changes and requirements of timely and appropriate collection or property management actions and reporting, including management of other third parties used in the collection process (appraisers, attorneys, etc.). additionally, every residential mortgage and consumer loan over 60 days past due is reviewed by rj bank personnel monthly and documented in a written report detailing delinquency information, balances, collection status, appraised value, and other data points. rj bank senior management meets monthly to discuss the status, collection strategy and charge-off/write-down recommendations on every residential mortgage or consumer loan over 60 days past due. updated collateral valuations are obtained for loans over 90 days past due and charge-offs are taken on individual loans based upon these valuations. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the residential mortgage portfolio. the geographic concentrations (top five states) of rj bank's one-to-four family residential mortgage loans are as follows: september 30, 2011 september 30, 2010 (1) ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 3.3 % ca (2) 4.8 % ca (2) 2.6 % fl 3.2 % fl 1.9 % ny 3.2 % ny 1.1 % nj 1.5 % nj 0.9 % va 1.2 % va (1) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $7.3 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2010 exclude $3.5 billion in qualifying assets funded by approximately $700 million of additional rjbdp deposits, approximately $400 million in deposits from affiliates and a $2.4 billion overnight fhlb advance. the deposits from affiliates were withdrawn and the fhlb advance was repaid on october 1, 2010. the additional rjbdp deposits were redirected to other rjbdp participating banks during early october 2010. the non-gaap financial measure provided loan portfolio concentration ratios which are more representative of rj bank's ongoing asset levels. had a gaap measure of total assets been used in the calculation of these ratios, the resulting percentages for ca, fl, ny, nj and va as of september 30, 2010 would have been 3.3%, 2.2%, 2.1%, 1.0% and 0.8%, respectively, and would have understated the actual concentrations used in rj bank's credit risk analysis. (2) this concentration ratio for the state of california excludes 1.9% and 2.3% at september 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for loans purchased from a large investment grade institution that have full repurchase recourse for any delinquent loans. loans where borrowers may be subject to payment increases include adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms that initially require payment of interest only. payments may increase significantly when the interest-only period ends and the loan principal begins to amortize. at september 30, 2011 and 2010, these loans totaled $639.9 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, or approximately 40% and 60% of the residential mortgage portfolio, respectively. in the current interest rate environment, a large percentage of these loans were projected to adjust to a payment lower than the current payment. the outstanding balance of interest-only loans, based on their contractual terms, are scheduled to reprice as follows: september 30, 2011 (in thousands) one year or less $ 384,572 over one year through two years 86,265 over two years through three years 89,880 over three years through four years 37,564 over four years through five years 9,656 over five years 31,929 total outstanding residential interest only loan balance $ 639,866 a component of credit risk management for the residential portfolio is the ltv and borrower credit score at origination or purchase. the most recent ltv/fico scores at origination of rj bank's residential first mortgage loan portfolio are as follows: september 30, 2011 september 30, 2010 residential first mortgage loan weighted-average ltv/fico (1) 66%/751 65%/751 (1) at origination. small group of local loans representing less than 0.5% of residential portfolio excluded. 73 in addition, rj bank obtains the most recently available information (generally on a quarter lag) to estimate current ltv ratios on the individual loans in the residential mortgage loan portfolio. current ltvs are estimated based on the initial appraisal obtained at the time of origination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing price changes that have occurred since origination. the value of the homes could vary from actual market values due to change in the condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price changes within metropolitan statistical areas and other factors. rj bank estimates that residential mortgage loans with ltvs between 100% and 120% represent 17% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio and residential mortgage loans with ltvs in excess of 120% represent 9% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio. the current average estimated ltv is approximately 80% for the total residential mortgage loan portfolio. credit risk management utilizes this data in conjunction with delinquency statistics, loss experience and economic circumstances to establish appropriate allowance for loan losses for the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which is based upon an estimate for the probability of default and loss given default for each homogeneous class of loans. corporate loans rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is comprised of approximately 300 borrowers, all of which are underwritten, managed and reviewed at rj bank's corporate headquarters location, which facilitates close monitoring of the portfolio by credit risk personnel, relationship officers and senior rj bank executives. rj bank utilizes a comprehensive credit risk rating system to measure the credit quality of individual corporate loans and related unfunded lending commitments, including the probability of default and/or loss given default of each corporate loan and commitment outstanding. credit risk in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is monitored on an individual loan basis for trends in borrower operational performance, payment history, credit ratings, collateral performance, loan covenant compliance and other factors including industry performance and concentrations. as part of the credit review process the loan grade is reviewed at least quarterly to confirm the appropriate risk rating for each credit. see note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, specifically the bank loans and allowances for losses section, for additional information on rj bank's corporate loan portfolio and allowance for loan loss policies. at september 30, 2011, other than loans classified as nonperforming, there were no loans that were delinquent greater than 30 days. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's corporate portfolio does not contain a significant concentration in any single industry. the industry concentrations (top five categories) of rj bank's corporate loans are as follows: september 30, 2011 september 30, 2010 (1) ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 4.2 % telecommunications 4.3 % consumer products and services 3.4 % consumer products and services 4.1 % telecommunications 2.9 % media communications 3.2 % hospitality 2.9 % pharmaceuticals 2.8 % retail real estate 2.6 % healthcare providers (non-hospital) 2.6 % hospitals (1) concentration ratios are presented as a percentage of adjusted rj bank total assets of $7.3 billion. adjusted rj bank total assets (non-gaap) at september 30, 2010 exclude $3.5 billion in qualifying assets funded by approximately $700 million of additional rjbdp deposits, approximately $400 million in deposits from affiliates and a $2.4 billion overnight fhlb advance. the deposits from affiliates were withdrawn and the fhlb advance was repaid on october 1, 2010. the additional rjbdp deposits were redirected to other rjbdp participating banks during early october 2010. the non-gaap financial measure provided loan portfolio concentration ratios which are more representative of rj bank's ongoing asset levels. had a gaap measure of total assets been used in the calculation of these ratios, the resulting percentages for consumer products and services, telecommunications, hospitality, retail real estate, and hospitals would have been 2.9%, 2.8%, 2.2%, 1.9% and 1.7%, respectively, and would have understated the actual concentrations used in rj bank's credit risk analysis. liquidity risk see the section entitled liquidity and capital resources in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this form 10-k for more information regarding our liquidity and how we manage liquidity risk. 74 operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in our technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in our control processes. we operate different businesses in diverse markets and are reliant on the ability of our employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes and complexity. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, we could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, we have developed and continue to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that our various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to either us or our customers. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout our operations. a quality of markets committee meets regularly to monitor the best execution activities of our trading departments as they relate to customer orders. this committee is comprised of representatives from the otc trading, listed trading, options, municipal trading, taxable trading, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of one of our senior officers. this committee reviews reports from the respective departments listed above and recommends action for improvement when necessary. regulatory and legal risk legal risk includes the risk of pcg customer claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct business. regulatory oversight of the financial services industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and we, as well as others in the industry, have been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. we have comprehensive procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of customer funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money laundering and record keeping. we have designated anti-money laundering officers in each of our subsidiaries who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act. we act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, we have financial and legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives reviews proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. our banking activities are highly regulated and subject to impact from changes in banking laws and regulations, including unanticipated rulings. present economic conditions have led to rapid introduction of significant regulatory programs or changes affecting consumer protection and disclosure requirements, financial reporting, and planned regulatory restructuring. regulatory requirements including recent changes to consumer and mortgage lending regulations, as well as new regulatory or government programs, are closely monitored and acted upon to ensure a timely response. see further discussion of our risks associated with the dodd-frank act in item 1a, risk factors. our major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. we have a number of outstanding claims resulting from, among other reasons, market conditions. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, we do, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion of our accounting policy regarding such matters in the loss provisions arising from legal proceedings section of "critical accounting policies" contained within item 7, management's discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 1 of our notes to the consolidated financial statements within this form 10-k. 75risk factors 15 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock or our senior notes which are listed on the nyse. risks related to our business and industry damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. if we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record keeping, sales and trading practices, failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. a failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to our reputation. further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. 15 index we are affected by difficult domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are generally affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including levels of economic output, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. these conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including the levels of trading, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. during the last five years we have experienced operating cycles during generally weak and uncertain u.s. and global economic conditions, including lower levels of economic output, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, high rates of unemployment, and significant uncertainty with regards to fiscal and monetary policy both domestically and abroad. these conditions have led to several factors in the global financial markets that have negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability. while select factors indicate signs of improvement, significant uncertainty remains. a period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, further reductions to the general level of short term interest rates, a return to increased dislocations in the credit markets, further reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors may significantly impair our revenues and profitability. we may experience a decline in commission revenue from a lower volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers and market participants failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. these periods of reduced revenue and other losses may be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses including but not limited to our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and, our ability to reduce them over short periods of time is limited. in august 2011, the credit rating agency standard &amp; poor's ( s&amp;p ) lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the u.s. from aaa to aa+, while maintaining a negative outlook. the downgrade reflected s&amp;p's view that an august 2011 agreement of u.s. lawmakers regarding the debt ceiling fell short of what would be necessary to stabilize the u.s. government's medium term debt dynamics. the two other major credit rating agencies did not downgrade their previously issued u.s. sovereign credit ratings. we have specific concerns relating to future or further downgrades of the u.s. sovereign credit rating by one or more of the major credit rating agencies that could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the u.s. and throughout the world and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. because of the unprecedented nature of any negative credit rating actions with respect to u.s. government obligations, the ultimate impacts on global markets and our business, financial condition and liquidity are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent. additionally, the negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from further european union's ( eu ) sovereign debt matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. concerns about the eu sovereign debt have caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally, and continued uncertainties loom over the outcome the eu's financial support programs and the possibility that other eu member states may experience similar financial troubles. our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the u.s., non-u.s. governments, and international agencies. the fed regulates the supply of money and credit in the u.s. fed policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. u.s. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures caused by the recent recession, and concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality. if these trends continue, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and in turn reduce investment banking revenues. declines in the real estate market over the past few years, along with high foreclosure rates and prolonged high unemployment rates, resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as commercial and investment banks. these write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. 16 index rj bank is particularly affected by domestic economic conditions. such conditions include: u.s. interest rates, the rate of unemployment, real estate prices, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. the deterioration of these conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity, or the amount of capital that is readily available for investment, spending, or to meet our contractual obligations is essential to our business. our inability to maintain adequate levels of capital in the form of cash and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations are inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, and cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders. some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, changes imposed by regulators to our liquidity or capital requirements in our subsidiaries that may prevent the upstream of dividends in the form of cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings within our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets at the parent company, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. the availability of outside financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on a variety of factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector, and our credit ratings. our cost and availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease, to provide funding to borrowers as a result of any future concerns about the stability of the markets generally, and the strength of counterparties specifically. if rjf's credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our relationships with clients. such a reduction in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. as such, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the fed and the fdic have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the entities they supervise. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources, in this form 10-k for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. 17 index we are exposed to market risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and venture capital and merchant banking investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing capital requirements which could adversely affect our profitability. our venture capital and merchant banking investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets do not meet their performance obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealer businesses exposing us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face the risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold certain securities and derivatives in our trading accounts. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses. we borrow securities from and lend securities to other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and agreements to resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. we may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or substitute collateral pledged. in the case of aged securities failed to receive, we may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty. also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. 18 index we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, could result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals including, but not limited to, c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities. we incur credit risk through our investments which include mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, auction rate securities, and other municipal securities. the credit quality of rj bank's loans and our investment portfolios can have a significant impact on earnings and overall financial performance. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to a natural disaster, act of terrorism, severe weather event, or economic event, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. further declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to further write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our available for sale securities portfolio. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products and on fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive reduced fees from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management. assets under management balances are impacted by net inflow/outflow of client assets and market values. below market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impacting our business and financial condition. if we experience losses of managed accounts, our fee revenue will decline. in addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues. our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, we may incur losses as a result of proprietary positions we hold. from time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results. 19 index we have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. there is risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. as a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. furthermore, although we do not hold any eu sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the recent eu sovereign debt crisis. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. although we have not suffered any material or significant losses as a result of the failure of any financial counterparty, any such losses in the future may materially adversely affect our results of operations. we have experienced increased pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. in recent years, our business has experienced increased pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. 20 index the acquisition of morgan keegan involves risks that could affect our business. on april 2, 2012 we completed our purchase of all of the issued and outstanding shares of morgan keegan (refer to the discussion of this acquisition in note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k). acquisitions of this magnitude pose numerous risks, including: difficulty in integrating our and morgan keegan's businesses, services and products; failure to achieve anticipated synergies or realize the projected benefits of the transaction; diversion of management's attention from other business concerns due to transaction-related issues; potential loss of clients or key employees; the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners; the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth; and changes in the capital markets. there is no assurance that this acquisition will yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not able to integrate successfully, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters. under the definitive stock purchase agreement dated january 11, 2012 entered into by rjf and regions governing our acquisition of morgan keegan (the spa ), regions has ongoing obligations to indemnify rjf with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters. rjf is relying on regions fulfilling its indemnification obligations under the spa with respect to such matters. our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions, or our failure to recover losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement and any adverse judgments and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels. see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding these indemnification agreements. growth of our business could increase costs and regulatory risks. we may incur significant expenses in connection with further expansion of our existing businesses, or recruitment of financial advisors, or in connection with strategic acquisitions or investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such investment or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal controls procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. moreover, to the extent we pursue strategic acquisitions, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms, or be unable to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired business into our existing business. such acquisitions could be of significant size and/or complexity. this effort, together with difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise equity capital or borrow to finance such acquisitions, which could dilute our shareholders or increase our leverage. any such borrowings might not be available on terms as favorable to us as our current borrowings, or perhaps at all. we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), location and reputation in relevant markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this form 10-k for additional information about our competitors. our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our employees and financial advisors. as such, to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 21 index we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. domestic commercial banks and investment banking boutique firms have entered the broker-dealer business, and large international banks are now serving our markets as well. legislative and regulatory initiatives which eased what were at one time restrictions on the sales of securities and underwriting activities by commercial banks have increased competition. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms, hedge funds, and others. this increased competition could cause our business to suffer. competition for personnel within the financial services industry is intense. the cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significantly more resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. in addition, the continued development of internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to enhance or adapt our services or infrastructure. an inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. we are exposed to operational risk. our diverse operations are exposed to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. our businesses depend on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse markets. the inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards, business disruption or system failures and failed transaction processing. also, increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations. while we have business contingency plans in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption involving physical site access, catastrophic events including weather related events, events involving electrical, environmental or communications, as well as events impacting services provided by others that we rely upon which could impact our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. our businesses depend on technology. our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. 22 index our continued success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients and damage to our reputation. customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased. thus, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although to-date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. notwithstanding that we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service ( ddos ) attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our, or our clients' or counterparties', confidential and other information processed stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. extraordinary trading volumes beyond reasonably foreseeable spikes in volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. while we have made investments to maintain the reliability and scalability of our systems and added hardware to address extraordinary volumes, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle truly extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances. systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, decreased levels for client service and client satisfactions and harm to our reputation. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing these types of operational risk. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted from our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee locations (see item 1, business in this form 10-k), our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications and the ability of our associates to get to our offices or work from home. refer to the "we are exposed to credit risk" risk factor in this item 1a for a discussion of how events, including weather events, could adversely impact rj bank's loan portfolio and the "we are exposed to operational risk" risk factor in this item 1a, for a discussion of how weather related events could impact our ability to conduct business. we are exposed to litigation risks. many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, arising from the normal course of business. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our employees could result in substantial liability for us. advisors may not understand investor needs or risk tolerances. such failures may result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. to the extent we fail to know our customers or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such customers, which could harm our business. our private client group business segment has historically had more risk of litigation than our institutional businesses. 23 index in highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives (including auction rate securities), the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions, contractual issues, employment claims and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and our prospects. in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. as it pertains to morgan keegan, a number of the types of claims and matters described above are subject to indemnification from regions. refer to the separate risk factor in this section entitled, regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters for a discussion of the risks associated with these indemnifications. see item 3, legal proceedings in this form 10-k for a discussion of our legal matters and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in the real estate and credit markets may influence the complexity and increase the uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting estimates, in this form 10-k for additional information on the nature of these estimates. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available for sale securities including ars, certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on our judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and the sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for a further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting estimates discussion within item 7, and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in this form 10-k. 24 index our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. a failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. we have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the failure to adequately address or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k. we are exposed to risk from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world, including a few developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets and, as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks, in non-u.s. markets. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and/or our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from the trading of non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because generally non-u.s. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than u.s. trading markets. additionally, a political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact our business and increase volatility in financial markets generally. we have risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly: property and casualty, workers' compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. 25 index risks related to our regulatory environment changes in regulations resulting from either the dodd-frank act or any new regulations may affect our businesses. the market and economic conditions over the past few years have led to legislation and numerous and continuing proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional legislation and regulation in the u.s. and abroad. the dodd-frank act enacted sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide for greater protections to individual consumers and investors. certain elements of the dodd-frank act became effective immediately, while the details of many provisions are subject to additional studies and final rule writing by various applicable regulatory agencies. the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy cannot be known until all such rules and regulations called for under the dodd-frank act have been finalized and implemented. the dodd-frank act may impact the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and its operations and interact with regulators, all of which while not currently anticipated to, could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers, regulatory oversight of incentive compensation, the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading and restrictions on proprietary trading. additionally, we are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the volcker rule. until the final regulations under the volcker rule are adopted, the precise definition of prohibited proprietary trading , the scope of any exceptions for market making and hedging, and the scope of permitted hedge fund and private equity fund activities remains uncertain. it is unclear under the proposed rules whether some portion of our market-making and risk mitigation activities, as currently conducted, will be required to be curtailed or will be otherwise adversely affected. in addition, the rules, if enacted as proposed, would prohibit certain securitization structures and would bar u.s. banking entities from sponsoring or investing in certain non-u.s. funds. also, with respect to certain of our investments in illiquid private equity funds, should regulators not exercise their authority to permit us to hold such investments beyond the minimum statutory divestment period, we could incur substantial losses when we dispose of such investments, as we may be forced to sell such investments at a substantial discount in the secondary market as a result of both the constrained timing of such sales and the possibility that other financial institutions are likewise liquidating their investments at the same time. when the regulations are final, we will be in a position to complete a review of our relevant activities to make plans to implement compliance with the volcker rule, which will likely not require full conformance until july 2014, subject to extensions. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. the basel iii capital standards will impose additional capital, liquidity and other requirements on us that could decrease our competitiveness and profitability. in june of 2012, the occ, the frb and the fdic published three nprs to implement aspects of basel iii, as well as to implement aspects of the dodd-frank act. the proposed rules would increase the quantity and quality of capital required by establishing a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement, a higher minimum tier 1 capital requirement, and more conservative standards for including an instrument in regulatory capital. in addition, these nprs propose to apply limits on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if a specified amount of common equity tier 1 capital in addition to the amount necessary to meet minimum capital requirements is not held and revised rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity and address weaknesses identified over recent years. given that these proposed nprs are subject to change, the adoption of these proposed rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital and liquidity. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. 26 index we operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the securities industry is subject to extensive regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, anti-money laundering efforts, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. if laws or regulations are violated, we could be subject to one or more of the following: civil liability, criminal liability, sanctions which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors, censures, fines or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. during fiscal year 2012, rjf became both a bank holding company and a financial holding company. although we have a statutory grace period of two years, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years, to conform existing activities and investments to the restrictions on nonbanking activities that apply to financial holding companies, we expect to be able to continue to engage in the vast majority of the activities in which we currently engage. after such time, it is possible that certain of our existing activities will be deemed to be impermissible under applicable regulations. in addition, as a financial holding company subject to the supervision and regulation of the fed, we are now subject to the fed's risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements. we currently invest in selected private equity and merchant banking investments (see the description of this activity in the proprietary capital section of part 1, item 1 business, within this form 10-k). as a financial holding company, the magnitude of such investments is subject to certain limitations. at our current investment levels, we do not anticipate having to make any otherwise unplanned divestitures of these investments in order to comply with regulatory limits, however, the amount of future investments may be limited in order to maintain compliance within regulatory specified levels. as a result of our conversion, we are subject to additional bank holding company regulatory reporting requirements which add to our administrative workload and costs. the maintenance of certain risk-based regulatory capital levels could impact various capital allocation decisions of one or more of our businesses. however, due to our strong current capital position, we do not anticipate that these capital requirements will have any negative impact on our future business activities. see the section entitled business - regulation of item 1 of this form 10-k for additional information. as a financial holding company, we are regulated by the fed. rj bank is also regulated by the occ and fdic. this oversight includes, but is not limited to, scrutiny with respect to affiliate transactions and compliance with consumer regulations. the economic and political environment has caused increased focus on the regulation of the financial services industry, including many proposals for new rules. any new rules issued by our regulators could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we also may be adversely affected as a result of changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the investment company act of 1940, with respect to how mutual funds collect and pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares. any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, the impact of changes such as those currently proposed cannot be predicted at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. see the section entitled business - regulation within item 1 of this form 10-k for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. 27 index failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements would significantly harm our business. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of finra, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. in addition, our canada based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction. rjf and rj bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by the federal banking regulators. under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, rjf and rj bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. rjf's and rj bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components of our capital, risk weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rjf and rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and tier i capital to risk-weighted assets and tier i capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm rj bank's operations and our financial condition. additionally, as rjf is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments of its obligations including, among others, debt service. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds the holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. see note 25 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. risks related to our common stock the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to fluctuations. stocks of financial institutions have, from time to time, experienced significant downward pressure in connection with economic conditions or events and may again experience such pressures in the future. changes in the stock market generally or as it concerns our industry, as well as geopolitical, economic and business factors unrelated to us, may also affect our stock price. significant declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could harm our ability to recruit and retain key employees, reduce our access to debt or equity capital and otherwise harm our business or financial condition. our current shareholders may experience dilution in their holdings if we issue additional shares of common stock as a result of future offerings or acquisitions where we use our common stock. as part of our business strategy, we may seek opportunities for growth through strategic acquisitions in which we may consider issuing equity securities as part of the consideration. additionally, we may obtain additional capital through the public sale of debt or equity securities. if we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. moreover, if we issue additional shares of common stock in connection with equity compensation, future acquisitions, or as a result of financing, an investor's ownership interest in our company will be diluted. the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales or issuance of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. 28 index our officers, directors and employees own a substantial amount of our common stock and therefore exercise significant control over our corporate governance and affairs, which may result in their taking actions with which other shareholders do not agree. as of september 30, 2012, our executive officers, directors and employees control a relatively significant portion of our outstanding common stock (including restricted stock and exercisable stock options which they hold). these shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which may result in corporate action with which other shareholders do not agree. this concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that might affect the market price of our common stock, given that our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all shares outstanding and entitled to vote to approve any of the specified types of business combinations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of our business and activities. management of these risks is critical to our fiscal soundness and profitability. our risk management processes are multi-faceted and require communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. we have a formal enterprise risk management ( erm ) program to assess and review aggregate risks across the firm. our management takes an active role in the erm process which requires specific administrative and business functions to participate in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the results of this process are extensively documented and reported to executive management and the rjf audit committee of the board of directors. the principal risks involved in our business activities are market, credit, liquidity, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is our risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates and security prices. we have exposure to market risk primarily through our broker-dealer and banking operations. our broker-dealer subsidiaries, primarily rj&amp;a, trade tax-exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an active market maker in nearly 1,000 listed and over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, we maintain inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. rj bank holds investments in mbs and cmos within its available for sale securities portfolio as well as sba loan securitizations not yet transferred. we hold certain ars in a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf. additionally, primarily within our canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, we invest in securities for our own proprietary equity investment account. see notes 5 and 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for information regarding the fair value of trading inventories associated with our broker-dealer client facilitation, market-making and proprietary trading activities in addition to rj bank's securitizations. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for information regarding the fair value of available for sale securities. 77 index changes in value of our trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, issuers' perceived or actual ability to meet their repayment obligations, equity prices, conditions impacting the economy as a whole, and the correlation among these factors. we manage our trading inventory by product type and have established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product type. our primary method of controlling risk in our trading inventory is through the establishment and monitoring of limits on the dollar amount of securities positions that can be entered into and other risk-based limits. limits are established both for categories of securities (e.g., otc equities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds) and for individual traders. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. limit violations are carefully monitored. management also monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, we monitor the exposure in our derivatives subsidiary daily based on established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate, spread, ratio, basis, and volatility risk. these exposures are monitored both on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods. in the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. rj&amp;a, mk &amp; co. and rj ltd., as a lead, co-lead or syndicate member in the underwriting deal, may be subject to market risk on any unsold shares issued in the offering to which we are committed. risk exposure is controlled by limiting participation, the deal size or through the syndication process. interest rate risk trading activities we actively manage our interest rate risk arising from our fixed income trading securities through the use of hedging techniques that involve swaps, futures and u.s. treasury obligations. we monitor, on a daily basis, the value-at-risk ( var ) in our institutional fixed income trading portfolios (cash instruments and interest rate derivatives). var is an appropriate statistical technique for estimating the potential loss in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements over a specified time horizon with a suitable confidence level. to calculate var, we use historical simulation. this approach assumes that historical changes in market conditions are representative of future changes. the simulation is based upon daily market data for the previous twelve months. var is reported at a 99% confidence level based on a one-day time horizon. this means that we could expect to incur losses greater than those predicted by the var estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year on average over the course of time. we have chosen the historical period of twelve months to be representative of the current interest rate markets. we utilize stress testing to complement our var analysis so as to measure risk under historical and hypothetical adverse scenarios. var results are indicative of relatively recent changes in general interest rate markets and are not designed to capture historical stress periods beyond the twelve month historical period. back testing procedures performed include comparing projected var results to our daily trading losses in our institutional trading portfolios. we then verify that the number of times that daily trading losses exceed var is consistent with our expectations at a 99% confidence level. during the year ended september 30, 2012 , the reported daily loss in the institutional fixed income trading portfolio did not exceed the predicted var on any trading day. should the market suddenly become more volatile, actual trading losses may exceed the var results presented on a single day and might accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. accordingly, management employs additional interest rate risk controls including position limits, a daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory, independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk, and review of issuer ratings, as well as stress testing. during volatile markets we may choose to pare our trading inventories to reduce risk. 78 index the following table sets forth the high, low, and daily average var for our overall institutional fixed income portfolio with the corresponding dollar value of our portfolio as of the period and dates indicated: year ended september 30, 2012 var at september 30, high low daily average 2012 2011 ($ in thousands) daily var $ 1,497 $ 218 $ 804 $ 1,007 $ 441 related portfolio value (net) (1) 578,629 225,005 389,170 486,467 220,436 var as a percent of portfolio value 0.26 % 0.10 % 0.22 % 0.22 % 0.20 % (1) portfolio value achieved on the day of the var calculation. effective with our acquisition of morgan keegan and subsequent to our conversion to a bank holding company and a financial holding company, we adopted the fed's market risk rule ( mrr ) for the purpose of calculating our capital ratios. the mrr requires us to extend the calculation of var for all of our trading portfolios, including equity and derivative instruments. the following table sets forth the high, low, and daily average var for all of our total trading portfolio, including equity and derivative instruments, as of the period and dates indicated: six months ended september 30, 2012 var at september 30, high low daily average 2012 ($ in thousands) daily var $ 1,968 $ 888 $ 1,318 $ 1,164 during the six month period ended september 30, 2012 that we computed var in accordance with the mrr, the reported daily loss in our total trading portfolio did not exceed the predicted var on any trading day. the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while management believes that its assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. as a result, var statistics are more reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. in addition, see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our derivative financial instruments. banking operations rj bank maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of c&amp;i, commercial and residential real estate, and consumer loans, as well as mbs, cmos, sba loan securitizations, deposits at other banks and other investments. those earning assets are funded by rj bank's obligations to customers (i.e. customer deposits). based on its current earning asset portfolio, rj bank is subject to interest rate risk. the current economic environment has led to an extended period of low market interest rates. as a result, the majority of rj bank's adjustable rate assets and liabilities have experienced a reduction in interest rate yields and costs that reflect these very low market interest rates. during the year, rj bank has focused its interest rate risk analysis on the risk of market interest rates rising. rj bank analyzes interest rate risk based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range of interest rate scenarios. 79 index one of the objectives of rj bank's asset liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. this committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rj bank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis, repricing gap analysis and limits, and net portfolio value and limits. simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. to ensure that rj bank is within its limits established for net interest income, a sensitivity analysis of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. rj bank utilizes an internally developed asset/liability model using standard industry software to analyze the available data. the model calculates changes in net interest income by calculating interest income and interest expense from existing assets and liabilities using current repricing, prepayment, and volume assumptions. various interest rate scenarios are modeled in order to determine the effect those scenarios would have on net interest income. the following table is an analysis of rj bank's estimated net interest income over a 12 month period based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own internal asset/liability model: instantaneous changes in rate net interest income projected change in net interest income ($ in thousands) +300 $359,150 3.77% +200 $365,585 5.63% +100 $367,813 6.27% 0 $346,109 -100 $331,083 (4.34)% the following table presents the amount of rj bank's interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities expected to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the indicated periods at september 30, 2012: repricing opportunities 0 - 6 months 7 - 12 months 1 - 5 years 5 or more years (in thousands) interest-earning assets: loans $ 7,134,495 $ 594,680 $ 310,959 $ 169,617 available for sale securities 241,827 27,260 157,145 90,675 other investments 1,013,928 total interest-earning assets 8,390,250 621,940 468,104 260,292 interest-bearing liabilities: transaction and savings accounts 8,236,811 certificates of deposit 27,629 28,753 262,497 total interest-bearing liabilities 8,264,440 28,753 262,497 gap 125,810 593,187 205,607 260,292 cumulative gap $ 125,810 $ 718,997 $ 924,604 $ 1,184,896 80 index the following table shows the contractual maturities of rj bank's loan portfolio at september 30, 2012, including contractual principal repayments. this table does not, however, include any estimates of prepayments. these prepayments could shorten the average loan lives and cause the actual timing of the loan repayments to differ significantly from those shown in the following table: due in one year or less &gt;one year five years &gt; 5 years total (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ $ 147,032 $ 147,032 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 82,389 3,598,941 1,337,501 5,018,831 cre construction loans 26,360 23,114 49,474 cre loans 248,198 603,593 84,659 936,450 residential mortgage loans 1,018 13,215 1,677,753 1,691,986 consumer loans 338,930 13,507 58 352,495 total loans held for investment 670,535 4,255,616 3,123,085 8,049,236 total loans $ 670,535 $ 4,255,616 $ 3,270,117 $ 8,196,268 the following table shows the distribution of the recorded investment of those rj bank loans that mature in more than one year between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at september 30, 2012: interest rate type fixed adjustable total (1) (in thousands) loans held for sale $ 13,474 $ 133,558 $ 147,032 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 3,305 4,933,137 4,936,442 cre construction loans 49,474 49,474 cre loans 32,296 655,956 688,252 residential mortgage loans 198,193 1,492,775 (2) 1,690,968 consumer loans 58 13,507 13,565 total loans held for investment 233,852 7,144,849 7,378,701 total loans $ 247,326 $ 7,278,407 $ 7,525,733 (1) excludes any net unearned income and deferred expenses. (2) see the credit risk discussion within item 7a of this form 10-k for additional information regarding rj bank's interest-only loan portfolio and related repricing schedule. equity price risk we are exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of rj&amp;a and rj ltd. rj&amp;a's broker-dealer activities are primarily client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. rj ltd. has a proprietary trading business; the average aggregate inventory held for proprietary trading by rj ltd. during the year ended september 30, 2012 was cdn $12 million. we attempt to reduce the risk of loss inherent in our inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. foreign exchange risk we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to: financial instruments denominated in u.s. dollars predominantly held by rj ltd., whose functional currency is the canadian dollar, which may be impacted by fluctuation in foreign exchange rates; certain loans held by rj bank denominated in canadian currency; and our investments in foreign subsidiaries. 81 index in order to mitigate its portion of this risk, rj ltd. enters into forward foreign exchange contracts. the fair value of these contracts is nominal. as of september 30, 2012, rj ltd. held forward contracts to buy and sell u.s. dollars totaling cdn $1 million and cdn $4 million, respectively. in addition, rj bank's u.s. subsidiaries hedge the foreign exchange risk related to their net investment in a canadian subsidiary utilizing short-term, forward foreign exchange contracts. these derivative agreements are accounted for as net investment hedges in the consolidated financial statements. see note 18 of the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding these derivative contracts. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower's, issuer's or counterparty's ability to meet its financial obligations under contractual or agreed upon terms. the nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure and duration of that transaction, and the parties involved. credit risk is an integral component of the profit assessment of lending and other financing activities. we are engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. we are exposed to risk that these counterparties may not fulfill their obligations. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. we manage this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which may guarantee performance. our client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of our clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure associated with our pcg segment results primarily from customer margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. when clients execute a purchase, we are at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, we may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, most private clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. we monitor exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and perform analysis on a regular basis in connection with our margin lending activities. we adjust our margin requirements if we believe our risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. we are subject to concentration risk if we hold large positions, extend large loans to, or have large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist primarily of securities issued by the u.s. government or its agencies. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. we seek to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. we are exposed to credit risk as a result of our leveraged lease with continental. see the contractual obligations, commitments and contingencies section above for further discussion of this exposure. the valuation of the mbs and non-agency cmos held as available for sale securities by rj bank is impacted by the credit risk associated with the underlying residential loans. underlying loan characteristics associated with this risk are considered in valuing these securities. ars held by a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf is impacted by the credit worthiness of the ars issuer. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for more information. rj bank has substantial corporate and residential mortgage loan portfolios. a significant downturn in the overall economy, deterioration in real estate values or a significant issue within any sector or sectors where rj bank has a concentration could result in large provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs. 82 index rj bank's strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all corporate, residential and consumer credit exposures. the strategy also includes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of all corporate loans and individual delinquent residential and consumer loans. the credit risk management process also includes an annual independent review of the credit risk monitoring process that performs assessments of compliance with corporate, residential mortgage and consumer credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit information. rj bank seeks to identify potential problem loans early, record any necessary risk rating changes and charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan losses. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is comprised of approximately 350 borrowers, the majority of which are underwritten, managed and reviewed at rj bank's corporate headquarters location, which facilitates close monitoring of the portfolio by credit risk personnel, relationship officers and senior rj bank executives. rj bank utilizes a comprehensive credit risk rating system to measure the credit quality of individual corporate loans and related unfunded lending commitments, including the probability of default and/or loss given default of each corporate loan and commitment outstanding. rj bank's allowance for loan losses methodology are described in the critical accounting estimates section of this item 7 and note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. as rj bank's loan portfolio is segregated into five portfolio segments, likewise, the allowance for loan losses is segregated by these same segments. the risk characteristics relevant to each portfolio segment are as follows: c&amp;i: loans in this segment are made to businesses and are generally secured by all assets of the business. repayment is expected from the cash flows of the respective business. unfavorable economic and political conditions, including the resultant decrease in consumer or business spending, may have an adverse effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre: loans in this segment are primarily secured by income-producing properties. for owner-occupied properties, the cash flows are derived from the operations of the business, and the underlying cash flows may be adversely affected by the deterioration in the financial condition of the operating business. the underlying cash flows generated by non-owner-occupied properties may be adversely affected by increased vacancy and rental rates, which are monitored on a quarterly basis. adverse developments in either of these areas may have a negative effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre construction: loans in this segment have similar risk characteristics of loans in the cre segment as described above. in addition, project budget overruns and performance variables related to the contractor and subcontractors may affect the credit quality of loans in this segment. with respect to commercial construction of residential developments, there is also the risk that the builder has a geographical concentration of developments. adverse developments in all of these areas may significantly affect the credit quality of the loans in this segment. residential mortgage (includes home equity loans/lines): all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to stringent underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of borrower, loan-to-value ( ltv ), and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). rj bank does not originate or purchase option adjustable rate mortgage ( arm ) loans with negative amortization, reverse mortgages, or other types of non-traditional loan products. loans with deeply discounted teaser rates are not originated or purchased. all loans in this segment are collateralized by residential real estate and repayment is primarily dependent on the credit quality of the individual borrower. the decline in the strength of the economy, particularly unemployment rates and housing prices, could have a significant effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. consumer: loans in this segment are primarily secured by marketable securities at advance rates consistent with industry standards. these loans are monitored daily for adherence to ltv guidelines and when a loan exceeds the required ltv, a collateral call is issued. past due loans are minimal as any past due amounts result in a notice to the client and the potential sale of securities to bring the loan within the prescribed ltv guidelines. in evaluating credit risk, rj bank considers trends in loan performance, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions, industry or customer concentrations, the loan portfolio composition and macroeconomic factors. during fiscal year 2012 corporate profit levels have improved but have remained weak as compared to historic levels. unemployment rates have remained high. retail sales have been sluggish and credit quality trends, while improved in some sectors, remain somewhat tenuous. all of these factors have a potentially negative impact on loan performance. however, during fiscal year 2012, corporate borrowers have continued to access the markets for new equity and debt. the volatility in residential home values in certain geographies has continued to have an impact on residential mortgage loan performance. these factors all have the capacity to negatively impact our provision for loan losses and net charge-offs. 83 index several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the allowance for loan losses at september 30, 2012, including the risk profile of the portfolios, net charge-offs during the period, the level of nonperforming loans, and delinquency ratios. rj bank also considered the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors and the extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. rj bank further stratified the performing residential loan portfolio based upon updated ltv estimates with higher reserve percentages allocated to the higher ltv loans. finally, rj bank considered current economic conditions that might impact the portfolio. rj bank determined the allowance that was required for specific loan grades based on relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. on an ongoing basis, rj bank evaluates its methods for determining the allowance for each class of loans and makes enhancements it considers appropriate. changes in the allowance for loan losses of rj bank are as follows: twelve months ended september 30, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 ($ in thousands) allowance for loan losses, beginning of year $ 145,744 $ 147,084 $ 150,272 $ 88,155 $ 47,022 provision for loan losses 25,894 33,655 80,413 169,341 54,749 charge-offs: c&amp;i loans (10,486 ) (458 ) cre construction loans (3,222 ) cre loans (2,000 ) (15,204 ) (56,402 ) (77,317 ) (10,169 ) residential mortgage loans (15,270 ) (22,501 ) (30,837 ) (27,314 ) (3,745 ) consumer (96 ) (255 ) total charge-offs (27,852 ) (38,418 ) (87,239 ) (107,853 ) (13,914 ) recoveries: cre loans 1,074 1,670 2,349 1 residential mortgage loans 2,543 1,744 1,289 628 298 consumer 21 9 total recoveries 3,638 3,423 3,638 629 298 net charge-offs (24,214 ) (34,995 ) (83,601 ) (107,224 ) (13,616 ) foreign exchange translation adjustment 117 allowance for loan losses, end of year $ 147,541 $ 145,744 $ 147,084 $ 150,272 $ 88,155 allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding 1.81 % 2.18 % 2.36 % 2.23 % 1.23 % the primary factors impacting the provision for loan losses during the period were a reduction in both nonperforming c&amp;i and cre loans, an improvement in the credit characteristics of certain problem corporate loans, and the reduction of the balance of residential mortgage nonperforming loans. in addition, although the amount of nonperforming loans remains elevated as compared to the pre-2008 levels, somewhat improved economic conditions relative to the prior year have limited the amount of new problem loans. the current year's provision for loan loss also includes $4 million resulting from the impact of the banking regulators' annual snc exam. the prior year's provision for loan losses included $2 million resulting from the impact of the respective period's annual snc exam (see the critical accounting estimates section of this item 7 for additional information regarding the annual snc exam). 84 index the following table presents net loan charge-offs and the percentage of net loan charge-offs to the average outstanding loan balances by loan portfolio segment: twelve months ended september 30, 2012 2011 2010 net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (10,486 ) 0.22 % $ (458 ) 0.01 % $ cre loans (926 ) 0.11 % (13,534 ) 1.70 % (54,053 ) 5.56 % residential mortgage loans (12,727 ) 0.73 % (20,757 ) 1.12 % (29,548 ) 1.34 % consumer loans (75 ) 0.08 % (246 ) 3.55 % total $ (24,214 ) 0.32 % $ (34,995 ) 0.56 % $ (83,601 ) 1.30 % twelve months ended september 30, 2009 2008 net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ $ cre construction loans (3,222 ) 0.96 % cre loans (77,316 ) 4.22 % (10,169 ) 0.26 % residential mortgage loans (26,686 ) 0.99 % (3,447 ) 0.15 % consumer loans total $ (107,224 ) 1.43 % $ (13,616 ) 0.22 % 85 index the level of charge-off activity is a factor that is considered in evaluating the potential for and severity of future credit losses. the 31% decline in net charge-offs compared to the prior year was primarily attributable to improved credit quality in the cre loan portfolio in addition to a stabilization of the balance in nonperforming residential mortgage loans. the table below presents nonperforming loans and total allowance for loan losses: september 30, 2012 september 30, 2011 september 30, 2010 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ $ $ (5 ) $ $ (23 ) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 19,517 (92,409 ) 25,685 (81,267 ) (60,464 ) cre construction loans (739 ) (490 ) (4,473 ) cre loans 8,404 (27,546 ) 15,842 (30,752 ) 67,901 (47,771 ) residential mortgage loans 78,739 (26,138 ) 91,796 (33,210 ) 86,082 (34,297 ) consumer loans (709 ) (20 ) (56 ) total $ 106,660 $ (147,541 ) $ 133,323 $ (145,744 ) $ 153,983 $ (147,084 ) september 30, 2009 september 30, 2008 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ (7 ) $ $ (1 ) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans (84,841 ) (55,105 ) cre construction loans (3,237 ) (7,061 ) cre loans 86,422 (34,018 ) 37,462 (17,239 ) residential mortgage loans 71,960 (28,081 ) 20,702 (8,588 ) consumer loans (88 ) (161 ) total $ 158,382 $ (150,272 ) $ 58,164 $ (88,155 ) the level of nonperforming loans is another indicator of potential future credit losses. the amount of nonperforming loans decreased 20% during the year ended september 30, 2012. this decrease was primarily due to a $13 million reduction in nonperforming residential mortgage loans, a $7 million reduction in nonperforming cre loans and a $6 million reduction in nonperforming c&amp;i loans. included in nonperforming residential mortgage loans are $67 million in loans for which $42 million in charge-offs were previously recorded, resulting in less exposure within the remaining balance. loan underwriting policies a component of rj bank's credit risk management strategy is conservative, well-defined policies and procedures. rj bank's underwriting policies for the major types of loans are: 86 index residential mortgage and consumer loan portfolio rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio consists of first mortgage loans originated by rj bank via referrals from our pcg financial advisors and the general public as well as first mortgage loans purchased by rj bank. all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to strict underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of the borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). approximately 90% of the residential loans are fully documented loans and 99% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio is owner-occupant borrowers for their primary or second home residences, of which approximately 85% is for their primary residences. substantially all of rj bank's residential loans are arm loans. approximately 30% of the first lien residential mortgage loans are arms with interest-only payments based on a fixed rate for an initial period of the loan, typically three to five years, then become fully amortizing, subject to annual and lifetime interest rate caps. certain of our originated 15 or 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market. rj bank's consumer loan portfolio is comprised primarily of securities-based loans and represents approximately 4% of rj bank's total loan portfolio. the underwriting policy for rj bank's consumer loans primarily includes a review of collateral, including ltv, with a limited review of repayment history and the debt-to-income ratio of the borrower. while rj bank has chosen not to participate in any government-sponsored loan modification programs, its loan modification policy does take into consideration some of the programs' parameters and supports every effort to assist borrowers within the guidelines of safety and soundness. in general, rj bank considers the qualification terms outlined in the government-sponsored programs as well as the affordability test and other factors. rj bank retains flexibility to determine the appropriate modification structure and required documentation to support the borrower's current financial situation before approving a modification. short sales are also used by rj bank to mitigate credit losses. corporate loan portfolio rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is diversified among a number of industries in both the u.s. and canada and comprised of project finance real estate loans, commercial lines of credit and term loans, the majority of which are participations in snc or other large syndicated loans. rj bank is sometimes involved in the syndication of the loan at inception and some of these loans have been purchased in the secondary trading markets. as the process for evaluating the sncs or other large syndications is consistent with the process for the other corporate loans in the portfolio, there is no additional credit risk with syndicated loans as compared to any other loan in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. in addition, all corporate loans are subject to rj bank's regulatory review. the remainder of the corporate loan portfolio is comprised of smaller participations and direct loans. regardless of the source, all loans are independently underwritten to rj bank credit policies and are subject to loan committee approval, and credit quality is monitored on an on-going basis by rj bank's corporate lending staff. rj bank credit policies include criteria related to ltv limits based upon property type, single borrower loan limits, loan term and structure parameters (including guidance on leverage, debt service coverage ratios and debt repayment ability), industry concentration limits, secondary sources of repayment, and other criteria. a large portion of rj bank's corporate loans are to borrowers in industries in which we have expertise, through coverage provided by our capital markets research analysts. more than half of rj bank's corporate borrowers are public companies. rj bank's corporate loans are generally secured by all assets of the borrower and in some instances are secured by mortgages on specific real estate. in a limited number of transactions, loans in the portfolio are extended on an unsecured basis. there are no subordinated loans or mezzanine financings in the corporate loan portfolio. risk monitoring process another component of the credit risk strategy at rj bank is the ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all residential, consumer and corporate credit exposures. there are various other factors included in these processes, depending on the loan portfolio. residential mortgage and consumer loans we track and review many factors to monitor credit risk in rj bank's residential mortgage and consumer loan portfolios. the qualitative factors include, but are not limited to: loan performance trends, loan product parameters and qualification requirements, borrower credit scores, occupancy (i.e., owner occupied, second home or investment property), level of documentation, loan purpose, geographic concentrations, average loan size, and loan policy exceptions. these qualitative measures, while considered and reviewed in establishing the allowance for loan losses, have generally not resulted in any quantitative adjustments to rj bank's historical loss rates. in addition to historical loss rates, the quantitative factors utilized for the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio include updated ltv ratios and expected home price changes. rj bank adjusts its loss given default (severity) factor directly by an estimated home price change which is consistent with the published case-shiller index as well as projections from other leading institutions forecasting home price changes. 87 index rj bank obtains the most recently available information (generally on a quarter lag) to estimate current ltv ratios on the individual loans in the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio. current ltv ratios are estimated based on the initial appraisal obtained at the time of origination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing price changes that have occurred since origination. the value of the homes could vary from actual market values due to change in the condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price changes within metropolitan statistical areas and other factors. rj bank estimates that residential mortgage loans with updated ltvs between 100% and 120% represent 15% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio and residential mortgage loans with updated ltvs in excess of 120% represent 7% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio. the current average estimated ltv is approximately 75% for the total residential mortgage loan portfolio. credit risk management utilizes this data in conjunction with delinquency statistics, loss experience and economic circumstances to establish appropriate allowance for loan losses for the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which is based upon an estimate for the probability of default and loss given default for each homogeneous class of loans. the marketable collateral securing rj bank's securities-based loans within the consumer loan portfolio is monitored on a daily basis. collateral adjustments are made by the borrower as necessary to ensure rj bank's loans are adequately secured, resulting in minimizing its credit risk. residential mortgage loan delinquency levels are elevated by historical standards at rj bank due to the economic downturn and the high level of unemployment, however, the levels have improved during fiscal year 2012. our consumer loan portfolio, however, has not experienced high levels of delinquencies to date. at september 30, 2012 and september 30, 2011, there were no delinquent consumer loans. at september 30, 2012, loans over 30 days delinquent (including nonperforming loans) decreased to 3.55% of residential mortgage loans outstanding, compared to 4.26% over 30 days delinquent at september 30, 2011. additionally, our september 30, 2012 percentage compares favorably to the national average for over 30 day delinquencies of 10.3% as most recently reported by the fed. rj bank's significantly lower delinquency rate as compared to its peers is the result of both our uniform underwriting policies and the lack of non-traditional loan products and subprime loans. the following table presents a summary of delinquent residential mortgage loans: delinquent residential loans (amount) delinquent residential loans as a percentage of outstanding loan balances 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) ($ in thousands) september 30, 2012 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 10,276 $ 49,476 $ 59,752 0.62 % 2.97 % 3.58 % home equity loans/lines 338 338 1.33 % % 1.33 % total residential mortgage loans $ 10,614 $ 49,476 $ 60,090 0.63 % 2.92 % 3.55 % september 30, 2011 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 12,718 $ 61,870 $ 74,588 0.74 % 3.58 % 4.32 % home equity loans/lines 88 114 202 0.28 % 0.37 % 0.65 % total residential mortgage loans $ 12,806 $ 61,984 $ 74,790 0.73 % 3.53 % 4.26 % (1) comprised of loans which are two or more payments past due as well as loans in process of foreclosure. 88 index to manage and limit credit losses, we maintain a rigorous process to manage our loan delinquencies. with all whole loans purchased generally on a servicing-retained basis and all originated first mortgages serviced by a third party, the primary collection effort resides with the servicer. rj bank personnel direct and actively monitor the servicers' efforts through extensive communications regarding individual loan status changes and requirements of timely and appropriate collection or property management actions and reporting, including management of third parties used in the collection process (appraisers, attorneys, etc.). additionally, every residential mortgage and consumer loan over 60 days past due is reviewed by rj bank personnel monthly and documented in a written report detailing delinquency information, balances, collection status, apprised value, and other data points. rj bank senior management meets monthly to discuss the status, collection strategy and charge-off/write-down recommendations on every residential mortgage or consumer loan over 60 days past due. updated collateral valuations are obtained for loans over 90 days past due and charge-offs are taken on individual loans based on these valuations. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the residential mortgage portfolio. the geographic concentrations (top five states) of rj bank's one-to-four family residential mortgage loans are as follows: september 30, 2012 september 30, 2011 ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 2.8 % ca (1) 3.3% ca (1) 2.7 % fl 2.6% fl 1.5 % ny 1.9% ny 0.9 % nj 1.1% nj 0.7 % va 0.9% va (1) the concentration ratio for the state of california excludes 1.8% for september 30, 2012 and 1.9% for september 30, 2011 for loans purchased from a large investment grade institution that have full repurchase recourse for any delinquent loans. loans where borrowers may be subject to payment increases include adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms that initially require payment of interest only. payments may increase significantly when the interest-only period ends and the loan principal begins to amortize. at september 30, 2012 and september 30, 2011, these loans totaled $428 million and $640 million, respectively, or approximately 30% and 40% of the residential mortgage portfolio, respectively. at september 30, 2012, the balance of amortizing, former interest-only, loans totaled $432 million. the weighted average number of years before the remainder of the loans, which were still in their interest-only period at september 30, 2012, begins amortizing is 3.1 years. in the current interest rate environment, a large percentage of these loans were projected to adjust to a payment lower than the current payment. the outstanding balance of loans that were interest-only at origination and based on their contractual terms are scheduled to reprice are as follows: september 30, 2012 (in thousands) one year or less $ 273,639 over one year through two years 71,518 over two years through three years 28,887 over three years through four years 8,858 over four years through five years 17,155 over five years 28,040 total outstanding residential interest-only loan balance $ 428,097 a component of credit risk management for the residential portfolio is the ltv and borrower credit score at origination or purchase. the most recent ltv/fico scores at origination of rj bank's residential first mortgage loan portfolio are as follows: september 30, 2012 september 30, 2011 residential first mortgage loan weighted-average ltv/fico (1) 66%/753 66%/751 (1) at origination. small group of local loans representing less than 0.5% of residential portfolio excluded. 89 index corporate loans credit risk in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is monitored on an individual loan basis for trends in borrower operating performance, payment history, credit ratings, collateral performance, loan covenant compliance, annual snc exam results, and other factors including industry performance and concentrations. as part of the credit review process the loan grade is reviewed at least quarterly to confirm the appropriate risk rating for each credit. the individual loan ratings resulting from the annual snc exam are incorporated in rj bank's internal loan ratings when the ratings are received and if the snc rating is lower on an individual loan than rj bank's internal rating, the loan is downgraded. while rj bank considers historical snc exam results in its loan ratings methodology, differences between the snc exam and internal ratings on individual loans typically arise due to subjectivity of the loan classification process. these differences may result in additional provision for loan losses in periods when snc exam results are received. see note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, specifically the bank loans and allowances for losses section, and critical accounting estimates in item 7 of this form 10-k, for additional information on rj bank's corporate loan portfolio and allowance for loan loss policies. at september 30, 2012, other than loans classified as nonperforming, there was one government-guaranteed loan totaling $222 thousand that was delinquent greater than 30 days. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio does not contain a significant concentration in any single industry. the industry concentrations (top five categories) of rj bank's corporate loans are as follows: september 30, 2012 september 30, 2011 ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 4.1 % business systems and services 4.2 % telecommunications 3.2 % pharmaceuticals 3.4 % consumer products and services 3.1 % media communications 2.9 % media communications 2.9 % consumer products and services 2.9 % pharmaceuticals 2.8 % retail real estate 2.6 % healthcare providers (non-hospital) liquidity risk see the section entitled liquidity and capital resources in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this form 10-k for more information regarding our liquidity and how we manage liquidity risk. operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in our technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in our control processes. we operate different businesses in diverse markets and are reliant on the ability of our employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes and complexity. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, we could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, we have developed and continue to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that our various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to either us or our customers. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout our operations. 90 index a quality of markets committee meets regularly to monitor the best execution activities of our trading departments as they relate to customer orders. this committee is comprised of representatives from the otc trading, listed trading, options, municipal trading, taxable trading, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of one of our senior officers. this committee reviews reports from the respective departments listed above and recommends action for improvement when necessary. regulatory and legal risk legal risk includes the risk of pcg customer claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments, exposure to pre-closing date litigation matters of morgan keegan should regions fail to honor its indemnification obligations (see item 3 legal proceedings and note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in this form 10-k for further discussion of the regions indemnification for such matters) and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct business. regulatory oversight of the financial services industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and we, as well as others in the industry, have been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. we have comprehensive procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of customer funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money laundering and record keeping. we have designated anti-money laundering officers in each of our subsidiaries who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act. we act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, we have financial and legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives reviews proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. our banking activities are highly regulated and subject to impact from changes in banking laws and regulations, including unanticipated rulings. present economic conditions have led to rapid introduction of significant regulatory programs or changes affecting consumer protection and disclosure requirements, financial reporting, and planned regulatory restructuring. regulatory requirements including recent changes to consumer and mortgage lending regulations, as well as new regulatory or government programs, are closely monitored and acted upon to ensure a timely response. see further discussion of our risks associated with new regulations, including the dodd-frank act, in item 1a, risk factors within this form 10-k. our major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. we have a number of outstanding claims resulting from, among other reasons, market conditions. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, we do, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion of our accounting policy regarding such matters in the loss provisions arising from legal proceedings section of critical accounting estimates contained within item 7, management's discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 2 of our notes to the consolidated financial statements within this form 10-k. 91 indexrisk factors 15 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock or our senior notes which are listed on the nyse. risks related to our business and industry damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to our attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. if we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record keeping, sales and trading practices, failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. a failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to our reputation. further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects. 15 index we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are generally affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including levels of economic output, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. these conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including the levels of trading, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. at times over the last several years we have experienced operating cycles during weak and uncertain u.s. and global economic conditions, including low levels of economic output, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, relatively high rates of unemployment, and significant uncertainty with regards to fiscal and monetary policy both domestically and abroad. these conditions led to several factors in the global financial markets that from time to time negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability. while select factors indicate signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. a period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, prolonged continuation of the artificially low level of short term interest rates, a return to increased dislocations in the credit markets, reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors could significantly impair our revenues and profitability. we could experience a decline in commission revenue from a lower volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers' and market participants' failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. these periods of reduced revenue and other losses could be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses including but not limited to our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and, our ability to reduce them over short periods of time is limited. future downgrades of the u.s. sovereign credit rating by one or more of the major credit rating agencies could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the united states and throughout the world and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. concerns about the european union's ( eu ) sovereign debt in recent years has caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. continued uncertainties loom over the outcome the eu's financial support programs and the possibility exists that other eu member states may experience similar financial troubles in the future. any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from further eu sovereign debt matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the united states, non-u.s. governments, and international agencies. the fed regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. fed policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. u.s. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures caused by the ongoing less than optimal economic environment, and ongoing concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality. if these trends continue or worsen, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and in turn reduce investment banking revenues. in addition such factors could adversely affect the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio. rj bank is particularly affected by economic conditions in north america. united states and/or canadian factors which are indicative of market conditions include: interest rates, the rate of unemployment, real estate prices, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. the deterioration of these factors can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. 16 index lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity, or the amount of capital that is readily available for investment, spending, or to meet our contractual obligations is essential to our business. our inability to maintain adequate levels of capital in the form of cash and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations are inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, and cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders. some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, changes imposed by regulators to our liquidity or capital requirements in our subsidiaries that may prevent the upstream of dividends in the form of cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets at the parent company, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. the availability of outside financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on a variety of factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector, and our credit ratings. our cost and availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease, to provide funding to borrowers as a result of any future concerns about the stability of the markets generally, and the strength of counterparties specifically. if rjf's credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our relationships with clients. such a reduction in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. as such, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in one of our credit agreements and certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions (see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for such information as of september 30, 2013). furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the fed, the fdic, and the sec (via finra) have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the subsidiaries to their parent, for the subsidiaries they supervise. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources, in this form 10-k for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we are exposed to market risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives, and venture capital and merchant banking investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. 17 index in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing capital requirements which could adversely affect our profitability. our venture capital and merchant banking investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets do not meet their performance obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealer businesses exposing us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face the risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold certain securities and derivatives in our trading accounts. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses. we borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and agreements to resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. we may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or substitute collateral pledged. in the case of aged securities failed to receive, we may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty. also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, could result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals including, but not limited to, c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities. we incur credit risk through our investments which include mbs, collateralized mortgage obligations, auction rate securities, and other municipal securities. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to a natural disaster, act of terrorism, severe weather event, or economic event, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. 18 index declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our available for sale securities portfolio. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products and on fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management. assets under management balances are impacted by net inflow/outflow of client assets and market values. below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impacting our business and financial condition. if we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline. in addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues. our underwriting, market making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, we may incur losses as a result of proprietary positions we hold. from time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results. we have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. there is risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. as a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. 19 index our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. furthermore, although we do not hold any eu sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the eu sovereign debt circumstances. as a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. although we have not suffered any material or significant losses as a result of the failure of any financial counterparty, any such losses in the future may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. we have experienced increased pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. our business continues to experience increased pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. we may not realize cost savings or other benefits that we anticipated in connection with our acquisition of morgan keegan. on april 2, 2012 we completed our purchase of all of the issued and outstanding shares of morgan keegan (refer to the discussion of this acquisition in note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k). acquisitions of this magnitude pose numerous risks, including the failure to achieve anticipated synergies or to realize the projected benefits of the transaction; potential loss of clients or key employees, and the inability to sustain revenue and earnings growth. even though during the year ended september 30, 2013 we successfully completed the integration of its businesses into those of rj&amp;a, there is no assurance that the net results of this acquisition over time will yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. if we are not successful in any or all of these areas, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters. under the definitive stock purchase agreement dated january 11, 2012 entered into by rjf and regions governing our acquisition of morgan keegan (the spa ), regions has ongoing obligations to continue to indemnify rjf with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters. rjf is relying on regions to continue fulfilling its indemnification obligations under the spa with respect to such matters. our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions, or our failure to recover losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement and any adverse judgments and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels. see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding these indemnification agreements. growth of our business could increase costs and regulatory risks. integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. we may incur significant expenses in connection with further expansion of our existing businesses, or recruitment of financial advisors, or in connection with strategic acquisitions or investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such investment or growth. 20 index expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. moreover, to the extent we pursue strategic acquisitions, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms, or be unable to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired business into our existing business. such acquisitions could be of significant size and/or complexity. this effort, together with difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise equity capital or borrow to finance such acquisitions, which could dilute our shareholders or increase our leverage. any such borrowings might not be available on terms as favorable to us as our current borrowings, or perhaps at all. we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), location and reputation in relevant markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this form 10-k for additional information about our competitors. we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms, hedge funds, and others. this competition could cause our business to suffer. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. in addition, the continued development of internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to enhance or adapt our services or infrastructure. an inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our ability to attract and retain qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business. our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our employees and financial advisors. as such, to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified associates, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. the cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. to the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are within our target range. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. 21 index we are exposed to operational risk. our diverse operations expose us to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, external events, including technological or connectivity failures either at the exchanges in which we do business or between our data center, operations processing sites or our branches. our businesses depend on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse markets. the inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, or failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards. it is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. if our employees engage in misconduct, our businesses would be adversely affected. operational risk also exists in the event of business disruption, system failures or failed transaction processing. third parties with which we do business could also be a source of operational risk, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of the systems or misconduct by the employees of such parties. in addition as we change processes or introduce new products and services, we may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations. our business contingency plan in place is intended to ensure we have the ability to recover our critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff and technology, in the event of a business interruption. despite the diligence we have applied to the development and testing of our plans, due to unforeseen factors, our ability to conduct business may in any case be adversely affected by a disruption involving physical site access, catastrophic events including weather related events, events involving electrical, environmental or communications malfunctions, as well as events impacting services provided by others that we rely upon which could impact our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. our businesses depend on technology. our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands, and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, and regulatory sanctions. 22 index customer, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased. thus, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although cyber security incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, to-date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, however, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. notwithstanding that we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our, or our clients' or counterparties', confidential and other information processed, stored in, and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. extraordinary trading volumes beyond reasonably foreseeable spikes in volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. while we have made investments to maintain the reliability and scalability of our systems and maintain hardware to address extraordinary volumes, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle truly extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances. systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients or slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, resulting in client dissatisfaction. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing these types of operational risk. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. certain of our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted from our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee locations and we are in process of transitioning our information systems processing to our new information technology data center in the denver, colorado area (see item 2, properties in this form 10-k for further discussion), our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. refer to the we are exposed to credit risk risk factor in this item 1a for a discussion of how events, including weather events, could adversely impact rj bank's loan portfolio and the we are exposed to operational risk risk factor in this item 1a, for a discussion of how weather related events could impact our ability to conduct business. we are exposed to litigation risks. many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, arising in the normal course of business. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our employees could result in substantial liability for us. advisors may not understand investor needs or risk tolerances. such failures may result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. to the extent we fail to know our customers or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such customers, which could harm our business. our private client group business segment has historically had more risk of litigation than our institutional businesses. in highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives, the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions, contractual issues, employment claims and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and our prospects. 23 index in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. as it pertains to morgan keegan, a number of the types of claims and matters described above arising prior to our acquisition are subject to indemnification from regions. refer to the separate risk factor in this section entitled, regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters for a discussion of the risks associated with these indemnifications. see item 3, legal proceedings in this form 10-k for a discussion of our legal matters and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k for discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in the real estate and credit markets may influence the complexity and increase the uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting estimates, in this form 10-k for additional information on the nature of these estimates. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available for sale securities including auction rate securities ( ars ) , certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on our judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and the sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for a further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting estimates discussion within item 7, and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in this form 10-k. 24 index our risk management and conflicts of interests policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. a failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. we have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the failure to adequately address or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k. we are exposed to risk from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world, including a few developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets and, as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks, in non-u.s. markets. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and/or our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from the trading of non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because generally non-u.s. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than u.s. trading markets. additionally, a political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact our business and increase volatility in financial markets generally. we have risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly: property and casualty, workers' compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. 25 index risks related to our regulatory environment changes in regulations resulting from either the dodd-frank act or any new regulations may affect our businesses. the market and economic conditions over the past several years have led to legislation and numerous and continuing proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional legislation and regulation in the u.s. and abroad. the dodd-frank act enacted sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry designed to provide for greater oversight of financial industry participants, reduce risk in banking practices and in securities and derivatives trading, enhance public company corporate governance practices and executive compensation disclosures, and provide for greater protections to individual consumers and investors. certain elements of the dodd-frank act became effective immediately, while the details of some provisions remain subject to implementing regulations that are yet to be adopted by various applicable regulatory agencies. the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy cannot be known until all such implementing regulations called for under the dodd-frank act have been finalized and implemented. the dodd-frank act may impact the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and operations and interact with regulators, all of which while not currently anticipated to, could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that have or may impact our business include, but are not limited to: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers, regulatory oversight of incentive compensation, the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading and restrictions on proprietary trading. there is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain thresholds outlined in the dodd-frank act. these include but are not limited to rj bank's oversight by the cfpb. additionally, we are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the volcker rule. until the final regulations under the volcker rule are adopted, the precise definition of prohibited proprietary trading , the scope of any exceptions, including those related to market making and hedging activities, and the scope of permitted hedge fund and private equity fund investments remain uncertain. it is unclear under the proposed rules whether some portion of our market making and related risk mitigation activities, as currently conducted, will be required to be curtailed or will be otherwise adversely affected. in addition, the rules, if enacted as proposed, could prohibit our participation and investment in certain securitization structures and could bar us from sponsoring or investing in certain non-u.s. funds. also, should regulators not exercise their authority to permit us to hold certain investments, including those in illiquid private equity funds, beyond the minimum statutory divestment period, we could incur substantial losses when we dispose of such investments. we may be forced to sell such investments at a substantial discount in the secondary market as a result of both the constrained timing of such sales and the possibility that other financial institutions are likewise liquidating their investments at the same time. when the regulations are final, we will be in a position to complete a review of our relevant activities and make plans to implement compliance with the volcker rule, which will likely not require full conformance until july 2014, subject to extensions. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. the sec recently adopted amendments, most of which were effective october, 2013, to its financial responsibility rules, including changes to the net capital rule, the customer protection rule, the record-keeping rules, and the notification rules applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries. we are currently evaluating the impact of these amendments on our broker-dealer subsidiaries; however, based on our current analyses, we do not believe they will have a material adverse effect on any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. 26 index the basel iii capital standards will impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our competitiveness and profitability. in july 2013, the occ, the frb and the fdic released final u.s. basel iii regulatory capital rules implementing the global regulatory capital reforms of basel iii and certain changes required by the dodd-frank act. the rule increases the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establishes a capital conservation buffer, and makes selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. the rule becomes effective for us january 1, 2015, subject to a transition period for several aspects of the rule, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer, and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. we are currently evaluating the impact of these rules on both rj bank and rjf. the increased capital requirements could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to rjf, rj bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business. rjf and rj bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by the federal banking regulators. under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, rjf and rj bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. rjf's and rj bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components of our capital, risk weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rjf and rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and tier i capital to risk-weighted assets and tier i capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either rjf or rj bank's operations and our financial condition. additionally, as rjf is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments of its obligations including, among others, debt service. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of finra, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. in addition, our canada based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds the holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. see note 25 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. we operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the securities industry is subject to extensive regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, anti-money laundering efforts, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. if laws or regulations are violated, we could be subject to one or more of the following: civil liability, criminal liability, sanctions which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors, censures, fines or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. 27 index we currently invest in selected private equity and merchant banking investments (see the description of this activity in the other section of part 1, item 1 business, within this form 10-k). as a financial holding company, the magnitude of such investments is subject to certain limitations. at our current investment levels, we do not anticipate having to make any otherwise unplanned divestitures of these investments in order to comply with regulatory limits; however, the amount of future investments may be limited in order to maintain compliance within regulatory specified levels. we are subject to financial holding company regulatory reporting requirements including the maintenance of certain risk-based regulatory capital levels that could impact various capital allocation decisions of one or more of our businesses. however, due to our strong current capital position, we do not anticipate that these capital level requirements will have any negative impact on our future business activities. see the section entitled business - regulation of item 1 of this form 10-k for additional information. as a financial holding company, we are regulated by the fed. rj bank is regulated by the occ, the fed, the cfpb, and the fdic. this oversight includes, but is not limited to, scrutiny with respect to affiliate transactions and compliance with consumer regulations. the economic and political environment over the past several years has caused increased focus on the regulation of the financial services industry, including many proposals for new rules. any new rules issued by our regulators could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we also may be adversely affected as a result of changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the investment company act of 1940, with respect to how mutual funds collect and pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares. any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, the impact of changes such as those currently proposed cannot be predicted at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. see the section entitled business - regulation within item 1 of this form 10-k for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this form 10-k regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. risks related to our common stock the market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to fluctuations. stocks of financial institutions have, from time to time, experienced significant downward pressure in connection with economic conditions or events and may again experience such pressures in the future. changes in the stock market generally or as it concerns our industry, as well as geopolitical, economic and business factors unrelated to us, may also affect our stock price. significant declines in the market price of our common stock or failure of the market price to increase could harm our ability to recruit and retain key employees, reduce our access to debt or equity capital and otherwise harm our business or financial condition. our current shareholders may experience dilution in their holdings if we issue additional shares of common stock as a result of future offerings or acquisitions where we use our common stock. as part of our business strategy, we may seek opportunities for growth through strategic acquisitions in which we may consider issuing equity securities as part of the consideration. additionally, we may obtain additional capital through the public sale of debt or equity securities. if we sell equity securities, the value of our common stock could experience dilution. furthermore, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of the common stock. moreover, if we issue additional shares of common stock in connection with equity compensation, future acquisitions, or as a result of financing, an investor's ownership interest in our company will be diluted. 28 index the issuance of any additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities, could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales or issuance of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of our business and activities. management of these risks is critical to our fiscal soundness and profitability. our risk management processes are multi-faceted and require communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. we have a formal enterprise risk management ( erm ) program to assess and review aggregate risks across the firm. our management takes an active role in the erm process which requires specific administrative and business functions to participate in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the results of this process are extensively documented and reported to executive management and the rjf audit and risk committee of the board of directors. the principal risks involved in our business activities are market, credit, liquidity, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is our risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates and security prices. we have exposure to market risk primarily through our broker-dealer and banking operations. our broker-dealer subsidiaries, primarily rj&amp;a, trade tax-exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an active market maker in over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, we maintain inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. rj bank holds investments in mbs, cmos and other equity securities within its available for sale securities portfolio as well as sba loan securitizations not yet transferred. we hold certain ars in a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf. additionally, primarily within our canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, we invest in securities for our own proprietary equity investment account. see notes 2, 5 and 6 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for information regarding the fair value of trading inventories associated with our broker-dealer client facilitation, market making and proprietary trading activities in addition to rj bank's securitizations. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for information regarding the fair value of available for sale securities. changes in value of our trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, issuers' perceived or actual ability to meet their repayment obligations, equity prices, conditions impacting the economy as a whole, and the correlation among these factors. we manage our trading inventory by product type and have established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product type. our primary method of controlling risk in our trading inventory is through the establishment and monitoring of limits on the dollar amount of securities positions that can be entered into and other risk-based limits. limits are established both for categories of securities (e.g., otc equities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds) and for individual traders. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. limit violations are carefully monitored. management also monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, we monitor the exposure in our derivatives subsidiary daily based on established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate, spread, ratio, basis, and volatility risk. these exposures are monitored both on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods. in the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. rj&amp;a and rj ltd., as a lead, co-lead or syndicate member in the underwriting deal, may be subject to market risk on any unsold shares issued in the offering to which we are committed. risk exposure is controlled by limiting participation, the deal size or through the syndication process. interest rate risk trading activities we are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of our trading inventories (primarily comprised of fixed income instruments) in our capital markets segment, as well as our rj bank operations. we actively manage the interest rate risk arising from our fixed income trading securities through the use of hedging techniques that involve swaps, futures and u.s. treasury obligations. we monitor, on a daily basis, the value-at-risk ( var ) in our trading portfolios. var is an appropriate statistical technique for estimating the potential losses in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements over a specified time horizon with a suitable confidence level. we apply the fed's market risk rule ( mrr ) for the purpose of calculating our capital ratios. the mrr requires us to extend the calculation of var for all of our trading portfolios, including equity and derivative instruments. 80 index to calculate var, we use historical simulation. this approach assumes that historical changes in market conditions are representative of future changes. the simulation is based upon daily market data for the previous twelve months. var is reported at a 99% confidence level based on a one-day time horizon. this means that we could expect to incur losses greater than those predicted by the var estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year on average over the course of time. we have chosen the historical period of twelve months to be representative of the current interest rate and equity markets. we utilize stress testing to complement our var analysis so as to measure risk under historical and hypothetical adverse scenarios. var results are indicative of relatively recent changes in general interest rates and equity markets and are not designed to capture historical stress periods beyond the twelve month historical period. back testing procedures performed include comparing projected var results to our daily trading losses. we then verify that the number of times that daily trading losses exceed var is consistent with our expectations at a 99% confidence level. during the year ended september 30, 2013 , the reported daily loss in our trading portfolio exceeded the predicted var one time. should markets suddenly become more volatile, actual trading losses may exceed the var results presented on a single day and might accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. accordingly, management applies additional controls including position limits, a daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory, independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk, and review of issuer ratings, as well as stress testing. during volatile markets we may choose to pare our trading inventories to reduce risk. the following table sets forth the high, low, and daily average var for all of our trading portfolios, including fixed income, equity and derivative instruments, as of the period and dates indicated: year ended september 30, 2013 var at september 30, high low daily average 2013 2012 (in thousands) daily var $ 3,078 $ 697 $ 1,718 $ 1,471 $ 1,164 the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while management believes that its assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. as a result, var statistics are more reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. separately, rjf provides additional market risk disclosures to comply with the risk-based capital guidelines: market risk rule released by the fed, the occ and the fdic. the results of the application of this market risk capital rule, also known basel 2.5, are available on our website under our company - financial reports - market risk rule disclosure within 45 days after the end of each of our reporting periods (the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report). as a part of our fixed income public finance operations, rj&amp;a enters into forward commitments to purchase government national mortgage association ( gnma ) mbs. the mbs securities are issued on behalf of various state and local housing finance agencies ( hfa ) and consist of the mortgages originated through their lending programs. rj&amp;a's forward gnma mbs purchase commitment arises at the time of the loan reservation for a borrower in the hfa lending program (these loan reservations fix the terms of the mortgage, including the interest rate and maximum principal amount). the underlying terms of the gnma mbs purchase, including the price for the mbs security (which is dependent upon the interest rates associated with the underlying mortgages) are also fixed at loan reservation. upon acquisition of the mbs security, rj&amp;a typically sells such security in open market transactions as part of its fixed income operations. in order to hedge the interest rate risk to which rj&amp;a would otherwise be exposed between the date of the commitment and the date of sale of the mbs in the market, rj&amp;a enters into to be announced ( tba ) security contracts with investors for generic mbs securities at specific rates and prices to be delivered on settlement dates in the future. see note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding these activities and the related balances outstanding as of september 30, 2013. see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our derivative financial instruments. 81 index banking operations rj bank maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of c&amp;i, commercial and residential real estate, and consumer loans, as well as mbs, cmos, sba loan securitizations, deposits at other banks and other investments. those earning assets are funded by rj bank's obligations to customers (i.e. customer deposits). based on its current earning asset portfolio, rj bank is subject to interest rate risk. the current economic environment has led to an extended period of low market interest rates. as a result, the majority of rj bank's adjustable rate assets and liabilities have experienced a reduction in interest rate yields and costs that reflect these very low market interest rates. during the year, rj bank has focused its interest rate risk analysis on the risk of market interest rates rising. rj bank analyzes interest rate risk based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range of interest rate scenarios. one of the objectives of rj bank's asset liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. this committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rj bank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis, repricing gap analysis and limits, and economic value of equity. simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. to ensure that rj bank is within its limits established for net interest income, a sensitivity analysis of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. rj bank utilizes an internally developed asset/liability model using standard industry software to analyze the available data. the model calculates changes in net interest income by calculating interest income and interest expense from existing assets and liabilities using current repricing, prepayment, and volume assumptions. various interest rate scenarios are modeled in order to determine the effect those scenarios would have on net interest income. the following table is an analysis of rj bank's estimated net interest income over a 12 month period based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own internal asset/liability model: instantaneous changes in rate net interest income projected change in net interest income ($ in thousands) +300 $375,819 9.64% +200 $372,613 8.70% +100 $370,645 8.13% 0 $342,781 -100 $328,108 (4.28)% refer to the net interest section of md&amp;a, in item 7 of this form 10-k, for a discussion and estimate of the potential favorable impact on rjf's pre-tax income that could result from a 100 basis point instantaneous rise in short-term interest rates applicable to rjf's entire operations. the following table presents the amount of rj bank's interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities expected to reprice, prepay or mature in each of the indicated periods at september 30, 2013: repricing opportunities 0 - 6 months 7 - 12 months 1 - 5 years 5 or more years (in thousands) interest-earning assets: loans $ 7,802,622 $ 573,637 $ 384,415 $ 240,964 available for sale securities 244,926 24,825 130,365 68,911 other investments 1,049,111 total interest-earning assets 9,096,659 598,462 514,780 309,875 interest-bearing liabilities: transaction and savings accounts 8,979,228 certificates of deposit 28,055 23,435 261,884 total interest-bearing liabilities 9,007,283 23,435 261,884 gap 89,376 575,027 252,896 309,875 cumulative gap $ 89,376 $ 664,403 $ 917,299 $ 1,227,174 82 index the following table shows the contractual maturities of rj bank's loan portfolio at september 30, 2013, including contractual principal repayments. this table does not, however, include any estimates of prepayments. these prepayments could shorten the average loan lives and cause the actual timing of the loan repayments to differ significantly from those shown in the following table: due in one year or less &gt;one year five years &gt; 5 years total (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ $ 100,731 $ 100,731 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 107,454 3,274,484 1,864,067 5,246,005 cre construction loans 18,959 33,881 8,000 60,840 cre loans 151,704 982,199 149,143 1,283,046 residential mortgage loans 4,208 19,995 1,721,447 1,745,650 consumer loans 548,870 6,883 52 555,805 total loans held for investment 831,195 4,317,442 3,742,709 8,891,346 total loans $ 831,195 $ 4,317,442 $ 3,843,440 $ 8,992,077 the following table shows the distribution of the recorded investment of those rj bank loans that mature in more than one year between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at september 30, 2013: interest rate type fixed adjustable total (1) (in thousands) loans held for sale $ 3,575 $ 97,156 $ 100,731 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 1,572 5,136,979 5,138,551 cre construction loans 41,881 41,881 cre loans 71,374 1,059,968 1,131,342 residential mortgage loans 268,190 1,473,252 (2) 1,741,442 consumer loans 52 6,883 6,935 total loans held for investment 341,188 7,718,963 8,060,151 total loans $ 344,763 $ 7,816,119 $ 8,160,882 (1) excludes any net unearned income and deferred expenses. (2) see the credit risk discussion within item 7a of this form 10-k for additional information regarding rj bank's interest-only loan portfolio and related repricing schedule. equity price risk we are exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of rj&amp;a and rj ltd. rj&amp;a's broker-dealer activities are primarily client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. rj ltd. has a proprietary trading business; the average aggregate inventory held for proprietary trading by rj ltd. during the year ended september 30, 2013 was cdn $8 million. we attempt to reduce the risk of loss inherent in our inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. foreign exchange risk we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to: financial instruments denominated in u.s. dollars predominantly held by rj ltd., whose functional currency is the canadian dollar, which may be impacted by fluctuation in foreign exchange rates; certain loans held by rj bank denominated in canadian currency; and our investments in foreign subsidiaries. 83 index in order to mitigate its portion of this risk, rj ltd. enters into forward foreign exchange contracts. the fair value of these contracts is nominal. as of september 30, 2013, rj ltd. held forward contracts to buy and sell u.s. dollars totaling cdn $5 million and cdn $6 million, respectively. in addition, rj bank's u.s. subsidiaries hedge the foreign exchange risk related to their net investment in a canadian subsidiary utilizing short-term, forward foreign exchange contracts. these derivative agreements are accounted for as net investment hedges in the consolidated financial statements. see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding these derivative contracts. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower's, issuer's or counterparty's ability to meet its financial obligations under contractual or agreed upon terms. the nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure and duration of that transaction, and the parties involved. credit risk is an integral component of the profit assessment of lending and other financing activities. we are engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. we are exposed to risk that these counterparties may not fulfill their obligations. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. we manage this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which may guarantee performance. our client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of our clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure associated with our pcg segment results primarily from customer margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. we monitor exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and perform analysis on a regular basis in connection with our margin lending activities. we adjust our margin requirements if we believe our risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. in addition, when clients execute a purchase, we are at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, we may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, most private clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. we are subject to concentration risk if we hold large positions, extend large loans to, or have large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist primarily of securities issued by the u.s. government or its agencies. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. we seek to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. the valuation of the non-agency cmos held as available for sale securities by rj bank is impacted by the credit risk associated with the underlying residential loans. underlying loan characteristics associated with this risk are considered in valuing these securities. ars held by a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf is impacted by the credit worthiness of the ars issuer. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for more information. rj bank has substantial corporate and residential mortgage loan portfolios. a significant downturn in the overall economy, deterioration in real estate values or a significant issue within any sector or sectors where rj bank has a concentration could result in large provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs. 84 index rj bank's strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all corporate, residential and consumer credit exposures. the strategy also includes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of all corporate loans and individual delinquent residential and consumer loans. the credit risk management process also includes an annual independent review of the credit risk monitoring process that performs assessments of compliance with corporate, residential mortgage and consumer credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit information. rj bank seeks to identify potential problem loans early, record any necessary risk rating changes and charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan losses. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is comprised of approximately 360 borrowers, the majority of which are underwritten, managed and reviewed at rj bank's corporate headquarters location, which facilitates close monitoring of the portfolio by credit risk personnel, relationship officers and senior rj bank executives. rj bank utilizes a comprehensive credit risk rating system to measure the credit quality of individual corporate loans and related unfunded lending commitments, including the probability of default and/or loss given default of each corporate loan and commitment outstanding. rj bank's allowance for loan losses methodology are described in the critical accounting estimates section of this item 7 and note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. as rj bank's loan portfolio is segregated into five portfolio segments, likewise, the allowance for loan losses is segregated by these same segments. the risk characteristics relevant to each portfolio segment are as follows: c&amp;i: loans in this segment are made to businesses and are generally secured by all assets of the business. repayment is expected from the cash flows of the respective business. unfavorable economic and political conditions, including the resultant decrease in consumer or business spending, may have an adverse effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre: loans in this segment are primarily secured by income-producing properties. for owner-occupied properties, the cash flows are derived from the operations of the business, and the underlying cash flows may be adversely affected by the deterioration in the financial condition of the operating business. the underlying cash flows generated by non-owner-occupied properties may be adversely affected by increased vacancy and rental rates, which are monitored on a quarterly basis. adverse developments in either of these areas may have a negative effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre construction: loans in this segment have similar risk characteristics of loans in the cre segment as described above. in addition, project budget overruns and performance variables related to the contractor and subcontractors may affect the credit quality of loans in this segment. with respect to commercial construction of residential developments, there is also the risk that the builder has a geographical concentration of developments. adverse developments in all of these areas may significantly affect the credit quality of the loans in this segment. residential mortgage (includes home equity loans/lines): all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to stringent underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). rj bank does not originate or purchase option adjustable rate mortgage ( arm ) loans with negative amortization, reverse mortgages, or other types of non-traditional loan products. loans with deeply discounted teaser rates are not originated or purchased. all loans in this segment are collateralized by residential real estate and repayment is primarily dependent on the credit quality of the individual borrower. a decline in the strength of the economy, particularly unemployment rates and housing prices, among other factors, could have a significant effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. consumer: loans in this segment are primarily secured by marketable securities at advance rates consistent with industry standards. these loans are monitored daily for adherence to ltv guidelines and when a loan exceeds the required ltv, a collateral call is issued. past due loans are minimal as any past due amounts result in a notice to the client for payment or the potential sale of securities which will bring the loan current and may bring the loan within the prescribed ltv guidelines. in evaluating credit risk, rj bank considers trends in loan performance, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions, industry or customer concentrations, the loan portfolio composition and macroeconomic factors. during fiscal year 2013 corporate profit levels have improved but have remained weak as compared to historic levels. unemployment rates have declined, but remain high. retail sales continue to be sluggish and credit quality trends, while improved in some sectors, remain somewhat tenuous. all of these factors have a potentially negative impact on loan performance. however, during fiscal year 2013, corporate borrowers have continued to access the markets for new equity and debt. the volatility in residential home values in certain geographies has continued to have an impact on residential mortgage loan performance. these factors all have the capacity to negatively impact our provision for loan losses and net charge-offs. 85 index several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the allowance for loan losses at september 30, 2013, including the risk profile of the portfolios, net charge-offs during the period, the level of nonperforming loans, and delinquency ratios. rj bank also considered the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors and the extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. rj bank further stratified the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio based upon updated ltv estimates with higher reserve percentages allocated to the higher ltv loans. finally, rj bank considered current economic conditions that might impact the portfolio. rj bank determined the allowance that was required for specific loan grades based on relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. on an ongoing basis, rj bank evaluates its methods for determining the allowance for each class of loans and makes enhancements it considers appropriate. changes in the allowance for loan losses of rj bank are as follows: for the year ended september 30, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 ($ in thousands) allowance for loan losses, beginning of year $ 147,541 $ 145,744 $ 147,084 $ 150,272 $ 88,155 provision for loan losses 2,565 25,894 33,655 80,413 169,341 charge-offs: c&amp;i loans (813 ) (10,486 ) (458 ) cre construction loans (3,222 ) cre loans (9,599 ) (2,000 ) (15,204 ) (56,402 ) (77,317 ) residential mortgage loans (6,771 ) (15,270 ) (22,501 ) (30,837 ) (27,314 ) consumer (254 ) (96 ) (255 ) total charge-offs (17,437 ) (27,852 ) (38,418 ) (87,239 ) (107,853 ) recoveries: c&amp;i loans 117 cre loans 1,680 1,074 1,670 2,349 1 residential mortgage loans 2,299 2,543 1,744 1,289 628 consumer 32 21 9 total recoveries 4,128 3,638 3,423 3,638 629 net charge-offs (13,309 ) (24,214 ) (34,995 ) (83,601 ) (107,224 ) foreign exchange translation adjustment (296 ) 117 allowance for loan losses, end of year $ 136,501 $ 147,541 $ 145,744 $ 147,084 $ 150,272 allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding 1.52 % 1.81 % 2.18 % 2.36 % 2.23 % the primary factors impacting the provision for loan losses during the year resulted from improved credit quality in the loan portfolio including a decrease in corporate criticized loans, a favorable resolution of corporate problem loans, lower ltv ratios in the residential mortgage loan portfolio, and a significant reduction of residential mortgage delinquent loans. in addition, although the amount of nonperforming loans remains elevated as compared to the pre-2008 levels, somewhat improved economic conditions relative to the prior year have limited the amount of new problem loans. the current year's provision for loan loss also includes $5.6 million resulting from the impact of the banking regulators' annual snc exam. the prior year's provision for loan losses included $4 million resulting from the impact of the respective period's annual snc exam (see the critical accounting estimates section of this item 7 for additional information regarding the annual snc exam). 86 index the following table presents net loan charge-offs and the percentage of net loan charge-offs to the average outstanding loan balances by loan portfolio segment: for the year ended september 30, 2013 2012 2011 net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (696 ) 0.01 % $ (10,486 ) 0.22 % $ (458 ) 0.01 % cre loans (7,919 ) 0.73 % (926 ) 0.11 % (13,534 ) 1.70 % residential mortgage loans (4,472 ) 0.26 % (12,727 ) 0.73 % (20,757 ) 1.12 % consumer loans (222 ) 0.05 % (75 ) 0.08 % (246 ) 3.55 % total $ (13,309 ) 0.15 % $ (24,214 ) 0.32 % $ (34,995 ) 0.56 % for the year ended september 30, 2010 2009 net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ $ cre construction loans (3,222 ) 0.96 % cre loans (54,053 ) 5.56 % (77,316 ) 4.22 % residential mortgage loans (29,548 ) 1.34 % (26,686 ) 0.99 % consumer loans total $ (83,601 ) 1.30 % $ (107,224 ) 1.43 % 87 index the level of charge-off activity is a factor that is considered in evaluating the potential for and severity of future credit losses. the 45% decline in net charge-offs compared to the prior year was primarily attributable to improved credit quality in the c&amp;i loan portfolio in addition to a stabilization of the balance in nonperforming residential mortgage loans. the table below presents nonperforming loans and total allowance for loan losses: september 30, 2013 september 30, 2012 september 30, 2011 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ $ $ $ $ (5 ) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 89 (95,994 ) 19,517 (92,409 ) 25,685 (81,267 ) cre construction loans (1,000 ) (739 ) (490 ) cre loans 25,512 (19,266 ) 8,404 (27,546 ) 15,842 (30,752 ) residential mortgage loans 76,357 (19,126 ) 78,739 (26,138 ) 91,796 (33,210 ) consumer loans (1,115 ) (709 ) (20 ) total $ 101,958 $ (136,501 ) $ 106,660 $ (147,541 ) $ 133,323 $ (145,744 ) september 30, 2010 september 30, 2009 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ (23 ) $ $ (7 ) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans (60,464 ) (84,841 ) cre construction loans (4,473 ) (3,237 ) cre loans 67,901 (47,771 ) 86,422 (34,018 ) residential mortgage loans 86,082 (34,297 ) 71,960 (28,081 ) consumer loans (56 ) (88 ) total $ 153,983 $ (147,084 ) $ 158,382 $ (150,272 ) the level of nonperforming loans is another indicator of potential future credit losses. the amount of nonperforming loans decreased 4% during the year ended september 30, 2013. this decrease was primarily due to a $19.4 million reduction in nonperforming c&amp;i loans and a $2.3 million reduction in nonperforming residential mortgage loans, offset by a $17.1 million increase in nonperforming cre loans. included in nonperforming residential mortgage loans are $62 million in loans for which $35.8 million in charge-offs were previously recorded, resulting in less exposure within the remaining balance. 88 index loan underwriting policies a component of rj bank's credit risk management strategy is conservative, well-defined policies and procedures. rj bank's underwriting policies for the major types of loans are: residential mortgage and consumer loan portfolio rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio consists of first mortgage loans originated by rj bank via referrals from our pcg financial advisors and the general public as well as first mortgage loans purchased by rj bank. all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to strict underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of the borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). approximately 90% of the residential loans are fully documented loans and 98% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio is owner-occupant borrowers for their primary or second home residences, of which approximately 85% is for their primary residences. substantially all of rj bank's residential loans are arm loans. approximately 20% of the first lien residential mortgage loans are arms with interest-only payments based on a fixed rate for an initial period of the loan, typically three to five years, then become fully amortizing, subject to annual and lifetime interest rate caps. certain of our originated 15 or 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market. rj bank's consumer loan portfolio is comprised primarily of loans fully collateralized by client's marketable securities and represents approximately 6% of rj bank's total loan portfolio. the underwriting policy for rj bank's consumer loans primarily includes a review of collateral, including ltv, with a limited review of repayment history and the debt-to-income ratio of the borrower. while rj bank has chosen not to participate in any government-sponsored loan modification programs, its loan modification policy does take into consideration some of the programs' parameters and supports every effort to assist borrowers within the guidelines of safety and soundness. in general, rj bank considers the qualification terms outlined in the government-sponsored programs as well as the affordability test and other factors. rj bank retains flexibility to determine the appropriate modification structure and required documentation to support the borrower's current financial situation before approving a modification. short sales are also used by rj bank to mitigate credit losses. corporate loan portfolio rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is diversified among a number of industries in both the u.s. and canada and comprised of project finance real estate loans, commercial lines of credit and term loans, the majority of which are participations in snc or other large syndicated loans. rj bank is sometimes involved in the syndication of the loan at inception and some of these loans have been purchased in the secondary trading markets. as the process for evaluating the sncs or other large syndications is consistent with the process for the other corporate loans in the portfolio, there is no additional credit risk with syndicated loans as compared to any other loan in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. in addition, all corporate loans are subject to rj bank's regulatory review. the remainder of the corporate loan portfolio is comprised of smaller participations and direct loans. regardless of the source, all loans are independently underwritten to rj bank credit policies and are subject to loan committee approval, and credit quality is monitored on an on-going basis by rj bank's corporate lending staff. rj bank credit policies include criteria related to ltv limits based upon property type, single borrower loan limits, loan term and structure parameters (including guidance on leverage, debt service coverage ratios and debt repayment ability), industry concentration limits, secondary sources of repayment, and other criteria. a large portion of rj bank's corporate loans are to borrowers in industries in which we have expertise, through coverage provided by our capital markets research analysts. more than half of rj bank's corporate borrowers are public companies. rj bank's corporate loans are generally secured by all assets of the borrower and in some instances are secured by mortgages on specific real estate. in a limited number of transactions, loans in the portfolio are extended on an unsecured basis. there are no subordinated loans or mezzanine financings in the corporate loan portfolio. risk monitoring process another component of the credit risk strategy at rj bank is the ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all residential, consumer and corporate credit exposures. there are various other factors included in these processes, depending on the loan portfolio. 89 index residential mortgage and consumer loans we track and review many factors to monitor credit risk in rj bank's residential mortgage and consumer loan portfolios. the qualitative factors include, but are not limited to: loan performance trends, loan product parameters and qualification requirements, borrower credit scores, occupancy (i.e., owner occupied, second home or investment property), level of documentation, loan purpose, geographic concentrations, average loan size, and loan policy exceptions. these qualitative measures, while considered and reviewed in establishing the allowance for loan losses, have generally not resulted in any quantitative adjustments to rj bank's historical loss rates. in addition to historical loss rates, one other quantitative factor utilized for the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio is updated ltv ratios. rj bank obtains the most recently available information (generally on a quarter lag) to estimate current ltv ratios on the individual loans in the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio. current ltv ratios are estimated based on the initial appraisal obtained at the time of origination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing price changes that have occurred since origination. the value of the homes could vary from actual market values due to change in the condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price changes within current valuation indices and other factors. residential mortgage loans with estimated ltvs between 100% and 120% represent 5% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio and residential mortgage loans with estimated ltvs in excess of 120% represent 2% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio. the current average estimated ltv is approximately 65% for the total residential mortgage loan portfolio. credit risk management utilizes this data in conjunction with delinquency statistics, loss experience and economic circumstances to establish appropriate allowance for loan losses for the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which is based upon an estimate for the probability of default and loss given default for each homogeneous class of loans. the marketable collateral securing rj bank's securities-based loans within the consumer loan portfolio is monitored on a daily basis. collateral adjustments are made by the borrower as necessary to ensure rj bank's loans are adequately secured, resulting in minimizing its credit risk. residential mortgage loan delinquency levels are elevated by historical standards at rj bank due to the economic downturn and the high level of unemployment, however, the levels have significantly improved during fiscal year 2013. our consumer loan portfolio, however, has not experienced high levels of delinquencies to date. at september 30, 2013 and september 30, 2012, there were no delinquent consumer loans. at september 30, 2013, loans over 30 days delinquent (including nonperforming loans) decreased to 2.87% of residential mortgage loans outstanding, compared to 3.55% over 30 days delinquent at september 30, 2012. additionally, our september 30, 2013 percentage compares favorably to the national average for over 30 day delinquencies of 9.19% as most recently reported by the fed. rj bank's significantly lower delinquency rate as compared to its peers is the result of both our uniform underwriting policies and the lack of non-traditional loan products and subprime loans. 90 index the following table presents a summary of delinquent residential mortgage loans: delinquent residential loans (amount) delinquent residential loans as a percentage of outstanding loan balances 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) ($ in thousands) september 30, 2013 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 6,824 $ 43,004 $ 49,828 0.40 % 2.49 % 2.89 % home equity loans/lines 372 372 % 1.66 % 1.66 % total residential mortgage loans $ 6,824 $ 43,376 $ 50,200 0.39 % 2.48 % 2.87 % september 30, 2012 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 10,276 $ 49,476 $ 59,752 0.62 % 2.97 % 3.58 % home equity loans/lines 338 338 1.33 % % 1.33 % total residential mortgage loans $ 10,614 $ 49,476 $ 60,090 0.63 % 2.92 % 3.55 % (1) comprised of loans which are two or more payments past due as well as loans in process of foreclosure. to manage and limit credit losses, we maintain a rigorous process to manage our loan delinquencies. with all whole loans purchased generally on a servicing-retained basis and all originated first mortgages serviced by a third party, the primary collection effort resides with the servicer. rj bank personnel direct and actively monitor the servicers' efforts through extensive communications regarding individual loan status changes and requirements of timely and appropriate collection or property management actions and reporting, including management of third parties used in the collection process (appraisers, attorneys, etc.). additionally, every residential mortgage and consumer loan over 60 days past due is reviewed by rj bank personnel monthly and documented in a written report detailing delinquency information, balances, collection status, appraised value, and other data points. rj bank senior management meets monthly to discuss the status, collection strategy and charge-off/write-down recommendations on every residential mortgage or consumer loan over 60 days past due. updated collateral valuations are obtained for loans over 90 days past due and charge-offs are taken on individual loans based on these valuations. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the residential mortgage portfolio. the geographic concentrations (top five states) of rj bank's one-to-four family residential mortgage loans are as follows: september 30, 2013 september 30, 2012 ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 3.0 % fl 2.8 % ca (1) 2.4 % ca (1) 2.7 % fl 1.2 % ny 1.5 % ny 0.8 % nj 0.9 % nj 0.7 % va 0.7 % va (1) the concentration ratio for the state of california excludes 1.4% for september 30, 2013 and 1.8% for september 30, 2012 for loans purchased from a large investment grade institution that have full repurchase recourse for any delinquent loans. 91 index loans where borrowers may be subject to payment increases include adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms that initially require payment of interest only. payments may increase significantly when the interest-only period ends and the loan principal begins to amortize. at september 30, 2013 and september 30, 2012, these loans totaled $363 million and $428 million, respectively, or approximately 20% and 30% of the residential mortgage portfolio, respectively. at september 30, 2013, the balance of amortizing, former interest-only, loans totaled $344 million. the weighted average number of years before the remainder of the loans, which were still in their interest-only period at september 30, 2013, begins amortizing is 3 years. in the current interest rate environment, a large percentage of these loans were projected to adjust to a payment lower than the current payment. the outstanding balance of loans that were interest-only at origination and based on their contractual terms are scheduled to reprice are as follows: september 30, 2013 (in thousands) one year or less $ 246,387 over one year through two years 18,940 over two years through three years 10,756 over three years through four years 13,275 over four years through five years 27,608 over five years 46,023 total outstanding residential interest-only loan balance $ 362,989 a component of credit risk management for the residential portfolio is the ltv and borrower credit score at origination or purchase. the most recent ltv/fico scores at origination of rj bank's residential first mortgage loan portfolio are as follows: september 30, 2013 september 30, 2012 residential first mortgage loan weighted-average ltv/fico (1) 66%/754 66%/753 (1) at origination. small group of local loans representing less than 1% of residential portfolio excluded. corporate loans credit risk in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is monitored on an individual loan basis for trends in borrower operating performance, payment history, credit ratings, collateral performance, loan covenant compliance, annual snc exam results, and other factors including industry performance and concentrations. as part of the credit review process the loan grade is reviewed at least quarterly to confirm the appropriate risk rating for each credit. the individual loan ratings resulting from the annual snc exam are incorporated in rj bank's internal loan ratings when the ratings are received and if the snc rating is lower on an individual loan than rj bank's internal rating, the loan is downgraded. while rj bank considers historical snc exam results in its loan ratings methodology, differences between the snc exam and internal ratings on individual loans typically arise due to subjectivity of the loan classification process. these differences may result in additional provision for loan losses in periods when snc exam results are received. see note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, specifically the bank loans and allowances for losses section, and critical accounting estimates in item 7 of this form 10-k, for additional information on rj bank's corporate loan portfolio and allowance for loan loss policies. at september 30, 2013, other than loans classified as nonperforming, there was one government-guaranteed loan totaling $135 thousand that was delinquent greater than 30 days. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio does not contain a significant concentration in any single industry. the industry concentrations (top five categories) of rj bank's corporate loans are as follows: september 30, 2013 september 30, 2012 ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 3.5 % media communications 4.1 % business systems and services 3.4 % business systems and services 3.2 % pharmaceuticals 3.3 % automotive/transportation 3.1 % media communications 3.1 % pharmaceuticals 2.9 % consumer products and services 3.1 % retail real estate 2.8 % retail real estate 92 index liquidity risk see the section entitled liquidity and capital resources in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this form 10-k for more information regarding our liquidity and how we manage liquidity risk. operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in our technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in our control processes. we operate different businesses in diverse markets and are reliant on the ability of our employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes and complexity. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, we could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, we have developed and continue to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance, risk management and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that our various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to either us or our customers. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout our operations. a quality of markets committee meets regularly to monitor the best execution activities of our trading departments as they relate to customer orders. this committee is comprised of representatives from the otc trading, listed trading, options, municipal trading, taxable trading, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of one of our senior officers. this committee reviews reports from the respective departments listed above and recommends action for improvement when necessary. regulatory and legal risk legal risk includes the risk of pcg customer claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments, exposure to pre-closing date litigation matters of morgan keegan should regions fail to honor its indemnification obligations (see item 3 legal proceedings and note 20 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in this form 10-k for further discussion of the regions indemnification for such matters) and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct business. regulatory oversight of the financial services industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and we, as well as others in the industry, have been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. we have comprehensive procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of customer funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money laundering and record keeping. we have designated anti-money laundering officers in each of our subsidiaries who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act. we act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, we have financial and legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives reviews proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. our banking activities are highly regulated and subject to impact from changes in banking laws and regulations, including unanticipated rulings. present economic conditions have led to rapid introduction of significant regulatory programs or changes affecting consumer protection and disclosure requirements, financial reporting, and planned regulatory restructuring. regulatory requirements including recent changes to consumer and mortgage lending regulations, as well as new regulatory or government programs, are closely monitored and acted upon to ensure a timely response. see further discussion of our risks associated with new regulations, including the dodd-frank act, in item 1a, risk factors within this form 10-k. our major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. 93 index we have a number of outstanding claims resulting from, among other reasons, market conditions. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, we do, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion of our accounting policy regarding such matters in the loss provisions arising from legal proceedings section of critical accounting estimates contained within item 7, management's discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 2 of our notes to the consolidated financial statements within this form 10-k. 94 indexrisk factors 15 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock or our senior notes which are listed on the nyse. risks related to our business and industry damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, customers, investors and associates. if we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record keeping, sales and trading practices, failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. a failure to maintain appropriate standards of service and quality, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to our reputation. further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also harm our future business prospects. we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are generally affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including levels of economic output, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. these conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. 15 index at times over the last several years we have experienced operating cycles during weak and uncertain u.s. and global economic conditions, including low levels of economic output, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, relatively high rates of unemployment, and significant uncertainty with regards to fiscal and monetary policy both domestically and abroad. these conditions led to several factors in the global financial markets that from time to time negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability. while select factors indicate signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. a period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, prolonged continuation of the artificially low level of short term interest rates, a return to increased dislocations in the credit markets, reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors could significantly impair our revenues and profitability. we could experience a decline in commission revenue from a lower volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers' and market participants' failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. these periods of reduced revenue and other losses could be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses including but not limited to our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and, our ability to reduce them over short periods of time is limited. u.s. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in the middle east and in eastern europe and russia. concerns about the european union's ( eu ) sovereign debt in recent years has caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the eu's financial support programs and the possibility exists that other eu member states may experience similar financial troubles in the future. any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the united states, foreign governments, and domestic and international agencies. the fed regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. fed policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. we may also be indirectly impacted by fiscal and monetary policy enacted in various global markets. u.s. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures caused by the ongoing less than optimal economic environment, and ongoing concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality. if these trends continue or worsen, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and in turn reduce investment banking revenues. in addition such factors could adversely affect the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio. rj bank is particularly affected by economic conditions in north america. united states and/or canadian factors which are indicative of market conditions include: interest rates, the rate of unemployment, real estate prices, the level of consumer confidence, changes in consumer spending and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. the deterioration of these factors can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity, or the amount of capital that is readily available for investment, spending, or to meet our contractual obligations is essential to our business. our inability to maintain adequate levels of capital in the form of cash and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, and cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders. some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, changes imposed by regulators to our liquidity or capital requirements in our subsidiaries that may prevent the upstream of dividends in the form of cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets for our company, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. the availability of outside financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on a variety of factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector, and our credit ratings. our cost and availability of funding may be adversely 16 index affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease, to provide funding to borrowers as a result of any future concerns about the stability of the markets generally, and the strength of counterparties specifically. if rjf's credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our relationships with clients. such a reduction in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in one of our credit agreements and certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions (see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for such information as of september 30, 2014 ). furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the fed, the fdic, and the sec (through finra) have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the subsidiaries to their parent, for the subsidiaries they supervise. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources, in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we are exposed to market risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives, and venture capital and merchant banking investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing capital requirements which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity. our venture capital and merchant banking investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. 17 index we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets do not meet their performance obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers market making and underwriting businesses exposing us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face the risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold certain securities, loans and derivatives in our trading accounts. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses. we borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and agreements to resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits and by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. we may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or substitute collateral pledged. in the case of aged securities failed to receive, we may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty. also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, could result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals including, but not limited to, c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities. we incur credit risk through our investments which include mbs, collateralized mortgage obligations, auction rate securities, and other municipal securities. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to a natural disaster, act of terrorism, severe weather event, or economic event, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our available for sale securities portfolio. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries and on advisory fees. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly 18 index affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management. assets under management balances are impacted by net inflow/outflow of client assets and market values. below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impacting our business and financial condition. if we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline. in addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues. our underwriting, market making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, we may incur losses as a result of proprietary positions we hold primarily in connection with our market making or underwriting activities. from time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results. we have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. there is risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. as a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. furthermore, although we do not hold any eu sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the eu sovereign debt circumstances. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. although we have not suffered any material or significant losses as a result of the failure of any financial counterparty, any such losses in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 index we have experienced increased pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. our business continues to experience increased pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters. under the definitive stock purchase agreement dated january 11, 2012 entered into by rjf and regions governing our acquisition of morgan keegan (the spa ), regions has ongoing obligations to continue to indemnify rjf with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters. rjf is relying on regions to continue fulfilling its indemnification obligations under the spa with respect to such matters. our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions, or our failure to recover losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement and any adverse judgments and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels. see note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding these indemnification agreements. growth of our business could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks. integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. we may incur significant expenses in connection with further expansion of our existing businesses, or recruitment of financial advisors, or in connection with strategic acquisitions or investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such investment or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. moreover, to the extent we pursue strategic acquisitions, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms, or be unable to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired business into our existing business. such acquisitions could be of significant size and/or complexity. this effort, together with difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise equity capital or borrow to finance such acquisitions, which could dilute our shareholders or increase our leverage. any such borrowings might not be available on terms as favorable to us as our current borrowings, or perhaps at all. we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), location and reputation in relevant markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms, hedge funds, and others. this competition could cause our business to suffer. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. in addition, the continued development of internet, networking or telecommunication technologies or other technological changes 20 index could require us to incur substantial expenditures to enhance or adapt our services or infrastructure. an inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business. our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our senior professionals, particularly our managing directors, and the members of our executive committees, as well as employees and financial advisors. to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. the reputations and relationships of our senior professionals with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagement. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. turnover in the financial services industry is high. the cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. to the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are not within our target range. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. if we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a new or existing competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. if we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. we are exposed to operational risk. our diverse operations expose us to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, external events, including technological or connectivity failures either at the exchanges in which we do business or between our data center, operations processing sites or our branches. our businesses depend on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse markets. the inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, or failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards. it is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. if our employees engage in misconduct, our businesses would be adversely affected. operational risk also exists in the event of business disruption, system failures or failed transaction processing. third parties with which we do business could also be a source of operational risk, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of the systems or misconduct by the employees of such parties. in addition as we change processes or introduce new products and services, we may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations. our business contingency plan in place is intended to ensure we have the ability to recover our critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff and technology, in the event of a business interruption. despite the diligence we have applied to the development and testing of our plans, due to unforeseen factors, our ability to conduct business may in any case be adversely affected by a disruption involving physical site access, catastrophic events including weather related events, events involving 21 index electrical, environmental or communications malfunctions, as well as events impacting services provided by others that we rely upon which could impact our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. there have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by associates in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. for example, our banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. if our associates were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. we are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. in addition our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management. the violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely affect our clients and us. it is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. if our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. our businesses depend on technology. our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands, and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, and regulatory sanctions. client and customer, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased. thus, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although cyber security incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, to-date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, however, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. notwithstanding that we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. if one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our, or our clients' or counterparties', confidential and other information processed, stored in, and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. extraordinary trading volumes beyond reasonably foreseeable spikes in volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. while we have made investments to maintain the reliability and scalability of our systems and maintain hardware to address extraordinary volumes, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle truly extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances. systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients or slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our clients desire, resulting in client dissatisfaction. 22 index in providing services to clients, we may manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. as a result, we may be subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the u.s. federal and state laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information and international laws. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. if any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. in addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and their related revenue in the future. potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant and depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing these types of operational risk. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. certain of our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted from our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee locations and our information systems processing is conducted out of our new information technology data center in the denver, colorado area (see item 2, properties in this report for further discussion), our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. refer to the we are exposed to credit risk risk factor in this item 1a for a discussion of how events, including weather events, could adversely impact rj bank's loan portfolio and the we are exposed to operational risk risk factor in this item 1a, for a discussion of how weather related events could impact our ability to conduct business. we are exposed to litigation risks. many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, arising in the normal course of business. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our associates could result in substantial liability for us. advisors may not understand investor needs or risk tolerances. such failures may result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. to the extent we fail to know our clients or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such clients, which could harm our business. our private client group business segment has historically had more risk of litigation than our institutional businesses. in highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives, the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions, contractual issues, employment claims and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and our prospects. in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. as it pertains to morgan keegan, a number of the types of claims and matters described above arising prior to our acquisition are subject to indemnification from regions. refer to the separate risk factor in this section entitled, regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters for a discussion of the risks associated with these indemnifications. see item 3, legal proceedings in this report for a discussion of our legal matters and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk. 23 index the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in the real estate and credit markets may influence the complexity and increase the uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting estimates, in this report for additional information on the nature of these estimates. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available for sale securities including auction rate securities ( ars ), certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on our judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) and the sec change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for a further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting estimates discussion within item 7 in this report, and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements, in this form 10-k. in december, 2012 the fasb issued a proposed standard on accounting for credit losses. the standard would replace multiple existing impairment models, including replacing an incurred loss model for loans with an expected loss model. the fasb announced it will establish the effective date when it issues the final standard. we cannot predict whether or when a final standard will be issued, when it will be effective, what its final provisions will be, or the potential impact its eventual adoption may have on our retained earnings. our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. our banking and trading processes seek to balance our ability to profit from banking and trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we employ limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. a failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. we have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the failure to adequately address or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, 24 index the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report. we are exposed to risk from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world, including a few developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets and, as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks, in non-u.s. markets. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and/or our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from the trading of non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because generally non-u.s. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than u.s. trading markets. additionally, a political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact our business and increase volatility in financial markets generally. we have risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly: property and casualty, workers' compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. risks related to our regulatory environment financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment which we expect will become even more stringent in light of recent well-publicized failures of regulators to detect and prevent fraud. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the sec, the nyse, finra, the occ, the cfpb, the fed, and state attorneys general. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including, but not limited to, the authority to fine us and to grant, cancel, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on the right to carry on particular businesses. for example, a failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the exchange act on broker-dealers and the investment advisers act on investment advisers, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, or by the investment company act of 1940, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. we also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or finra or other self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have adverse financial effects on us or cause reputational harm to us, which could harm our business prospects. changes in regulations resulting from either the dodd-frank act or any new regulations may affect our businesses. the market and economic conditions over the past several years have led to legislation and numerous and continuing proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry, including significant additional legislation and regulation in the 25 index u.s. and abroad. the dodd-frank act enacted sweeping changes in the supervision and regulation of the financial industry (see item 1, regulation, in this report for a discussion of such changes including the volcker rule). the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy cannot be known until all of the implementing regulations called for under the legislation have been finalized and implemented. these legislative and regulatory changes could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. the dodd-frank act impacts the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and operations and interact with regulators, all of which while not currently anticipated to, could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that have or may impact our business include, but are not limited to: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers, regulatory oversight of incentive compensation, the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading and restrictions on proprietary trading. there is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain thresholds outlined in the dodd-frank act. these include but are not limited to rj bank's oversight by the cfpb. the cfpb has been active in investigating products, services and operations of credit providers, including banks, for compliance with various laws such as the truth in lending act, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair credit reporting act, and the real estate settlement procedures act. any actions taken by the cfpb could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make them less attractive, restrict our ability to offer them, or increase our regulatory and compliance costs. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. in december, 2013, the final version of the volcker rule was adopted (see item 1, regulation, in this report for discussion of the volcker rule). although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of trading for our own account, due to our underwriting and market making activities, the volcker rule will likely increase our operational and compliance costs, and may reduce our trading revenues, require a change in our principal capital private equity investments, and as a result adversely affect our results of operations. the sec recently adopted amendments, most of which were effective october, 2013, to its financial responsibility rules, including changes to the net capital rule, the customer protection rule, the record-keeping rules, and the notification rules applicable to our broker-dealer subsidiaries. we are currently evaluating the impact of these amendments on our broker-dealer subsidiaries. such impact could have an adverse effect on certain of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the basel iii capital standards will impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our competitiveness and profitability. in july 2013, the occ, the frb and the fdic released final u.s. basel iii regulatory capital rules implementing the global regulatory capital reforms of basel iii and certain changes required by the dodd-frank act. the rule increases the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establishes a capital conservation buffer, and makes selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. the rule becomes effective for us january 1, 2015, subject to a transition period for several aspects of the rule, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer, and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. we are currently evaluating the impact of these rules on both rj bank and rjf. the increased capital requirements could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to rjf, rj bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business. rjf and rj bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by various federal regulators. under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, rjf and rj bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. rjf's and rj bank's capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components of our capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rjf and rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and tier i capital to risk-weighted assets and tier i capital to adjusted assets (as defined in the regulations). failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either rjf or rj bank's operations and our financial condition. 26 index as more fully discussed in item 1, regulation, in this report, rjf is required to perform annual stress tests using certain scenarios provided by the fed. while we believe that both the quality and magnitude of our capital base is sufficient to support our current operations given our risk profile, the results of the stress testing process may affect our approach to managing and deploying capital. additionally, as rjf is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments of its obligations including, among others, debt service. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of finra, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. in addition, our canada based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds the holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. see note 26 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. we operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the securities industry is subject to extensive regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, anti-money laundering efforts, record keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. if laws or regulations are violated, we could be subject to one or more of the following: civil liability, criminal liability, sanctions which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers, the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors, censures, fines or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to financial holding company regulatory reporting requirements including the maintenance of certain risk-based regulatory capital levels that could impact various capital allocation decisions of one or more of our businesses. however, due to our strong current capital position, we do not anticipate that these capital level requirements will have any negative impact on our future business activities. see the section entitled business - regulation of item 1 in this report for additional information. as a financial holding company, we are regulated by the fed. rj bank is regulated by the occ, the fed, the cfpb, and the fdic. this oversight includes, but is not limited to, scrutiny with respect to affiliate transactions and compliance with consumer regulations. the economic and political environment over the past several years has caused increased focus on the regulation of the financial services industry, including many proposals for new rules. any new rules issued by our regulators could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we also may be adversely affected as a result of changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the investment company act of 1940, with respect to how mutual funds pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their share . the staff of the office of compliance, inspections and examinations has indicated that it is reviewing use of fund assets to pay for fees to sub-transfer agents and sub-administrators for services that may be deemed to be distribution-related. any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, the impact of changes such as those currently proposed cannot be predicted at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries which have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers. some of our wholly owned subsidiaries are registered as an investment advisor with the sec and the regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in an increase in operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. it is impossible 27 index to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors. it is not clear whether the sec will determine that a heightened standard of conduct should be applicable to broker-dealers; however, any such standard, if mandated, would likely require us to review our product and service offerings and result in changes to these, and require that we incur additional regulatory costs in order to ensure compliance. in addition, in recent years, the u.s. and other governments have taken actions, and may continue to take further actions, including expanding current or enacting new standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries and in particular our investment management business. for example, several states and municipalities in the united states have recently adopted pay-to-play rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees, and could therefore affect the profitability of that portion of our business. in addition, the use of soft dollars, where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may in the future be limited or modified. although a substantial portion of the research relied on by our investment management business in the investment decision making process is generated internally by our investment analysts, external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars, is important to the process. this external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third party provided databases and research services. if the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these costs. furthermore, new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products may impact our investment management business and result in increased costs. for example, many regulators around the world adopted disclosure and reporting requirements relating to the hedge fund businesses or other businesses, and changes to the laws, rules and regulations in the u.s. related to the over-the-counter swaps and derivatives markets require additional registration, recordkeeping and reporting obligations. see the section entitled business - regulation within item 1 in this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. rj bank is subject to the cra and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties. the cra, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair housing act, and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. the u.s. department of justice and other federal agencies, including the cfpb, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. a successful challenge to an institution's performance under the cra or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, and restrictions on expansion activity. private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of our business and activities. management of these risks is critical to our fiscal soundness and profitability. our risk management processes are multi-faceted and require communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. we have a formal enterprise risk management ( erm ) program to assess and review aggregate risks across the firm. our management takes an active role in the erm process which requires specific administrative and business functions to participate in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the results of this process are extensively documented and reported to executive management and the rjf audit and risk committee of the board of directors. the principal risks involved in our business activities are market, credit, liquidity, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is our risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates and security prices. we have exposure to market risk primarily through our broker-dealer and banking operations. our broker-dealer subsidiaries, primarily rj&amp;a, trade tax-exempt and taxable debt obligations and act as an active market maker in over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, we maintain inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. rj bank holds investments in mbs, cmos and other equity securities within its available for sale securities portfolio as well as sba loan securitizations not yet transferred. we hold certain ars in a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf. additionally, primarily within our canadian broker-dealer subsidiary, we invest in securities for our own proprietary equity investment account. see notes 2 , 5 and 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for information regarding the fair value of trading inventories associated with our broker-dealer client facilitation, market making and proprietary trading activities in addition to rj bank's securitizations. see note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for information regarding the fair value of available for sale securities. changes in value of our trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, issuers' perceived or actual ability to meet their repayment obligations, equity prices, conditions impacting the economy as a whole, and the correlation among these factors. we manage our trading inventory by product type and have established trading divisions that have responsibility for each product type. our primary method of controlling risk in our trading inventory is through the establishment and monitoring of limits on the dollar amount of securities positions that can be entered into and other risk-based limits. limits are established both for categories of securities (e.g., otc equities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds) and for individual traders. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed to senior management. limit violations are carefully monitored. management also monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, we monitor the exposure in our derivatives subsidiary daily based on established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate, spread, ratio, basis, and volatility risk. these exposures are monitored both on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods. in the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. rj&amp;a and rj ltd., as a lead, co-lead or syndicate member in the underwriting deal, may be subject to market risk on any unsold shares issued in the offering to which we are committed. risk exposure is controlled by limiting participation, the deal size or through the syndication process. interest rate risk trading activities we are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of our trading inventories (primarily comprised of fixed income instruments) in our capital markets segment, as well as our rj bank operations. we actively manage the interest rate risk arising from our fixed income trading securities through the use of hedging techniques that involve swaps, futures and u.s. treasury obligations. 77 index we monitor, on a daily basis, the value-at-risk ( var ) for all of our trading portfolios. var is an appropriate statistical technique for estimating potential losses in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements over a specified time horizon with a suitable confidence level. we apply the fed's market risk rule ( mrr ) for the purpose of calculating our capital ratios. the mrr requires us to extend the calculation of var for all of our trading portfolios, including equity and derivative instruments. to calculate var, we use historical simulation. this approach assumes that historical changes in market conditions are representative of future changes. the simulation is based upon daily market data for the previous twelve months. var is reported at a 99% confidence level based on a one-day time horizon. this means that we could expect to incur losses greater than those predicted by the var estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year on average over the course of time. we have chosen the historical period of twelve months to be representative of the current interest rate and equity markets. we utilize stress testing to complement our var analysis so as to measure risk under historical and hypothetical adverse scenarios. var results are indicative of relatively recent changes in general interest rates and equity markets and are not designed to capture historical stress periods beyond the twelve month historical period. back testing procedures performed include comparing projected var results to regulatory-defined daily trading losses, which excludes fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading, as required by the mrr. we then verify that the number of times that regulatory-defined daily trading losses exceed var is consistent with our expectations at a 99% confidence level. during the year ended september 30, 2014 , the reported regulatory-defined daily loss in our trading portfolios did not exceed the predicted var on any trading day. should markets suddenly become more volatile, actual trading losses may exceed var results presented on a single day and might accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. accordingly, management applies additional controls including position limits, a daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory, independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk, and review of issuer ratings, as well as stress testing. during volatile markets we may choose to pare our trading inventories to reduce risk. the following table sets forth the high, low, and daily average var for all of our trading portfolios, including fixed income, equity, and derivative instruments, as of the period and dates indicated: year ended september 30, 2014 var at september 30, high low daily average 2014 2013 (in thousands) daily var $ 2,647 $ 464 $ 1,449 $ 565 $ 1,471 the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while management believes that its assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. as a result, var statistics are more reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. separately, rjf provides additional market risk disclosures to comply with the risk-based capital guidelines: market risk rule released by the fed, the occ and the fdic. the results of the application of this market risk capital rule, also known as basel 2.5, are available on our website under our company - financial reports - market risk rule disclosure within 45 days after the end of each of our reporting periods (the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report). as a part of our fixed income public finance operations, rj&amp;a enters into forward commitments to purchase gnma or fnma mbs which are issued on behalf of various state and local hfa (see further description of these activities in the item 1 business, capital markets, trading section in this report). these activities result in exposure to interest rate risk. in order to hedge the interest rate risk to which rj&amp;a would otherwise be exposed between the date of the commitment and the date of sale of the mbs, rj&amp;a enters into to be announced ( tba ) security contracts with investors for generic mbs securities at specific rates and prices to be delivered on settlement dates in the future. see notes 2 and 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding these activities and the related balances outstanding as of september 30, 2014 . see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our derivative financial instruments. 78 index banking operations rj bank maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of c&amp;i loans, tax-exempt loans, sbl, and commercial and residential real estate loans, as well as deposits at other banks, other investments, mbs, cmos, sba loan securitizations and a trading portfolio of corporate loans. those earning assets are primarily funded by rj bank's obligations to customers (i.e. customer deposits). based on its current earning asset portfolio, rj bank is subject to interest rate risk. the current economic environment has led to an extended period of low market interest rates. as a result, the majority of rj bank's adjustable rate assets and liabilities have experienced a reduction in interest rate yields and costs that reflect these very low market interest rates. during the year, rj bank has focused its interest rate risk analysis on the risk of market interest rates rising. rj bank analyzes interest rate risk based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range of interest rate scenarios. one of the objectives of rj bank's asset liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. this committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rj bank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis and economic value of equity ( eve ). simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. to ensure that rj bank is within its limits established for net interest income, a sensitivity analysis of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. rj bank utilizes an internally developed asset/liability model using standard industry software to analyze the available data. the model estimates changes in net interest income by calculating interest income and interest expense from existing assets and liabilities using current repricing, prepayment, and volume assumptions. various interest rate scenarios are modeled in order to determine the effect those scenarios may have on net interest income. the following table is an analysis of rj bank's estimated net interest income over a 12 month period based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own internal asset/liability model: instantaneous changes in rate net interest income projected change in net interest income ($ in thousands) +300 $389,430 8.14% +200 $386,727 7.39% +100 $385,480 7.04% 0 $360,117 -25 $350,009 (2.81)% refer to the net interest section of md&amp;a, in item 7 of this report, for a discussion and estimate of the potential favorable impact on rjf's pre-tax income that could result from a 100 basis point instantaneous rise in short-term interest rates applicable to rjf's entire operations. the eve analysis is a point in time analysis of current interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, which incorporates all cash flows over their estimated remaining lives, discounted at current rates. the eve approach is based on a static balance sheet and provides an indicator of future earnings and capital levels as the changes in eve indicate the anticipated change in the value of future cash flows. rj bank monitors sensitivity to changes in eve utilizing board approved limits. these limits set a risk tolerance to changing interest rates and assist rj bank in determining strategies for mitigating this risk as it approaches these limits. the following table presents an analysis of rj bank's estimated eve sensitivity based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own internal asset/liability model: instantaneous changes in rate projected change in eve +300 (7.02)% +200 (2.39)% +100 2.71% 0 -25 (2.13)% 79 index the following table shows the contractual maturities of rj bank's loan portfolio at september 30, 2014 , including contractual principal repayments. this table does not, however, include any estimates of prepayments. these prepayments could shorten the average loan lives and cause the actual timing of the loan repayments to differ significantly from those shown in the following table: due in one year or less &gt;one year five years &gt; 5 years total (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ 148 $ 41,864 $ 42,012 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 38,278 3,542,103 2,841,966 6,422,347 cre construction loans 28,961 47,772 17,462 94,195 cre loans 152,752 1,257,298 279,113 1,689,163 tax-exempt loans 122,218 122,218 residential mortgage loans 2,731 15,094 1,733,922 1,751,747 consumer loans 1,018,711 4,991 46 1,023,748 total loans held for investment 1,241,433 4,867,258 4,994,727 11,103,418 total loans $ 1,241,433 $ 4,867,406 $ 5,036,591 $ 11,145,430 the following table shows the distribution of the recorded investment of those rj bank loans that mature in more than one year between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at september 30, 2014 : interest rate type fixed adjustable total (1) (in thousands) loans held for sale $ 4,622 $ 37,390 $ 42,012 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 8 6,384,061 6,384,069 cre construction loans 65,234 65,234 cre loans 39,127 1,497,284 1,536,411 tax-exempt loans 122,218 122,218 residential mortgage loans 253,009 1,496,007 (2) 1,749,016 consumer loans 5,037 5,037 total loans held for investment 419,399 9,442,586 9,861,985 total loans $ 424,021 $ 9,479,976 $ 9,903,997 (1) excludes any net unearned income and deferred expenses. (2) see the credit risk discussion within item 7a of this report for additional information regarding rj bank's interest-only loan portfolio and related repricing schedule. equity price risk we are exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of rj&amp;a and rj ltd. rj&amp;a's broker-dealer activities are primarily client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. rj ltd. has a proprietary trading business; the average aggregate inventory of equity securities held for proprietary trading by rj ltd. during the year ended september 30, 2014 was cdn $8.7 million. we attempt to reduce the risk of loss inherent in our inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. foreign exchange risk we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to certain loans held by rj bank denominated in canadian currency, cash or financial instruments denominated in either euro's or pound sterling that are held by one of our subsidiaries domiciled in europe, and our investments in various foreign subsidiaries. 80 index we have foreign exchange risk in our investment in rj ltd., of approximately cdn $248 million at september 30, 2014, which is not hedged. foreign exchange gains/losses related to this investment are primarily reflected in other comprehensive (loss) income ( oci ) on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. to mitigate a portion of our risk associated with certain net investments in foreign subsidiaries, rj bank's u.s. subsidiaries hedge the foreign exchange risk related to their investment in a canadian subsidiary utilizing short-term, forward foreign exchange contracts. these derivative agreements are accounted for as net investment hedges in the consolidated financial statements and thus have no financial impact. see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding these derivative contracts. during most of fiscal year 2014, we had foreign exchange risk associated with canadian currency denominated loans held by rj bank, which were not hedged. refer to the discussion of foreign currency gains/losses in item 7: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in the rj bank segment discussion, in this report. during september 2014, rj bank transferred these canadian currency denominated loans to its canadian subsidiary, whose investment is hedged as described in the preceding paragraph. accordingly, rj bank has only an insignificant exposure to foreign exchange risk as of september 30, 2014. we have foreign exchange risk associated with our investment in subsidiaries located in the uk, europe and south america. these investments are not hedged and are not material individually or in the aggregate. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower's, issuer's or counterparty's ability to meet its financial obligations under contractual or agreed upon terms. the nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure and duration of that transaction, and the parties involved. credit risk is an integral component of the profit assessment of lending and other financing activities. we are engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. we are exposed to risk that these counterparties may not fulfill their obligations. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. we manage this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which may guarantee performance. our client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of our clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure results from client margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. we monitor exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and perform analysis on a regular basis in connection with our margin lending activities. we adjust our margin requirements if we believe our risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. in addition, when clients execute a purchase, we are at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, we may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, most private clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. we offer loans to financial advisors and certain key revenue producers, primarily for recruiting and retention purposes. we have credit risk and may incur a loss in the event that such borrower declares bankruptcy or is no longer affiliated with us. historically, such losses have not been significant due to our strong advisor retention and successful collection efforts. we are subject to concentration risk if we hold large positions, extend large loans to, or have large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist primarily of securities issued by the u.s. government or its agencies. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. we seek to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. the valuation of the non-agency cmos held as available for sale securities by rj bank is impacted by the credit risk associated with the underlying residential loans. underlying loan characteristics associated with this risk are considered in valuing these 81 index securities. ars held by a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf is impacted by the credit worthiness of the ars issuer. see note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for more information. rj bank has substantial corporate, sbl and residential mortgage loan portfolios. a significant downturn in the overall economy, deterioration in real estate values or a significant issue within any sector or sectors where rj bank has a concentration could result in large provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs. rj bank's strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all corporate, residential and sbl credit exposures. the strategy also includes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of all corporate loans and individual delinquent residential loans. the credit risk management process also includes an annual independent review of the credit risk monitoring process that performs assessments of compliance with corporate and residential mortgage credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit information. rj bank seeks to identify potential problem loans early, record any necessary risk rating changes and charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan losses. rj bank utilizes a comprehensive credit risk rating system to measure the credit quality of individual corporate loans and related unfunded lending commitments, including the probability of default and/or loss given default of each corporate loan and commitment outstanding. for its sbl and residential mortgage loans, rj bank utilizes the credit risk rating system used by bank regulators in measuring the credit quality of each homogeneous class of loans. rj bank's allowance for loan losses methodology are described in the critical accounting estimates section of this item 7 and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. as rj bank's loan portfolio is segregated into six portfolio segments, likewise, the allowance for loan losses is segregated by these same segments. the risk characteristics relevant to each portfolio segment are as follows: c&amp;i: loans in this segment are made to businesses and are generally secured by all assets of the business. repayment is expected from the cash flows of the respective business. unfavorable economic and political conditions, including the resultant decrease in consumer or business spending, may have an adverse effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre: loans in this segment are primarily secured by income-producing properties. for owner-occupied properties, the cash flows are derived from the operations of the business, and the underlying cash flows may be adversely affected by the deterioration in the financial condition of the operating business. the underlying cash flows generated by non-owner-occupied properties may be adversely affected by increased vacancy and rental rates, which are monitored on a quarterly basis. adverse developments in either of these areas may have a negative effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre construction: loans in this segment have similar risk characteristics of loans in the cre segment as described above. in addition, project budget overruns and performance variables related to the contractor and subcontractors may affect the credit quality of loans in this segment. with respect to commercial construction of residential developments, there is also the risk that the builder has a geographical concentration of developments. adverse developments in all of these areas may significantly affect the credit quality of the loans in this segment. tax-exempt: loans in this segment are made to governmental and nonprofit entities and are generally secured by a pledge of revenue, and in some cases, by a security interest in or a mortgage on the asset being financed. for loans to governmental entities, repayment is expected from a pledge of certain revenues or taxes. for nonprofit entities, repayment is expected from revenues which may include fundraising proceeds. these loans are subject to demographic risk therefore, much of the credit assessment of tax-exempt loans is driven by the entity's revenue base and general economic environment. adverse developments in either of these areas may have a negative effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. residential mortgage (includes home equity loans/lines): all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to stringent underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). rj bank does not originate or purchase option adjustable rate mortgage ( arm ) loans with negative amortization, reverse mortgages, or other types of non-traditional loan products. loans with deeply discounted teaser rates are not originated or purchased. all loans in this segment are collateralized by residential real estate and repayment is primarily dependent on the credit quality of the individual borrower. a decline in the strength of the economy, particularly unemployment rates and housing prices, among other factors, could have a significant effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. sbl: loans in this segment are secured by marketable securities at advance rates consistent with industry standards. these loans are monitored daily for adherence to ltv guidelines and when a loan exceeds the required ltv, a collateral call is 82 index issued. past due loans are minimal as any past due amounts result in a notice to the client for payment or the potential sale of securities which will bring the loan current and may bring the loan within the prescribed ltv guidelines. in evaluating credit risk, rj bank considers trends in loan performance, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions, industry or customer concentrations, the loan portfolio composition and macroeconomic factors. during fiscal year 2014 corporate profit levels continued to improve but have remained weak as compared to historic levels. unemployment rates have declined, but remain high. retail sales continue to be sluggish and credit quality trends, while improved in some sectors, remain somewhat tenuous. the volatility in residential home values in certain geographies has continued to have an impact on residential mortgage loan performance. all of these factors have a potentially negative impact on loan performance and net charge-offs. however, during fiscal year 2014, corporate borrowers have continued to access the markets for new equity and debt. several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the allowance for loan losses at september 30, 2014, including the risk profile of the portfolios, net charge-offs during the period, the level of nonperforming loans, and delinquency ratios. rj bank also considered the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors and the extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. rj bank further stratified the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio based upon updated ltv estimates with higher reserve percentages allocated to the higher ltv loans. finally, rj bank considered current economic conditions that might impact the portfolio. rj bank determined the allowance that was required for specific loan grades based on relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. on an ongoing basis, rj bank evaluates its methods for determining the allowance for each class of loans and makes enhancements it considers appropriate. changes in the allowance for loan losses of rj bank are as follows: for the year ended september 30, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 ($ in thousands) allowance for loan losses, beginning of year $ 136,501 $ 147,541 $ 145,744 $ 147,084 $ 150,272 provision for loan losses 13,565 2,565 25,894 33,655 80,413 charge-offs: c&amp;i loans (1,845 ) (813 ) (10,486 ) (458 ) cre loans (16 ) (9,599 ) (2,000 ) (15,204 ) (56,402 ) residential mortgage loans (2,015 ) (6,771 ) (15,270 ) (22,501 ) (30,837 ) sbl (254 ) (96 ) (255 ) total charge-offs (3,876 ) (17,437 ) (27,852 ) (38,418 ) (87,239 ) recoveries: c&amp;i loans 16 117 cre loans 80 1,680 1,074 1,670 2,349 residential mortgage loans 1,998 2,299 2,543 1,744 1,289 sbl 35 32 21 9 total recoveries 2,129 4,128 3,638 3,423 3,638 net charge-offs (1,747 ) (13,309 ) (24,214 ) (34,995 ) (83,601 ) foreign exchange translation adjustment (745 ) (296 ) 117 allowance for loan losses, end of year $ 147,574 $ 136,501 $ 147,541 $ 145,744 $ 147,084 allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding 1.33 % 1.52 % 1.81 % 2.18 % 2.36 % the primary factors impacting the provision for loan losses during the year were significant loan portfolio growth, which was partially offset by a decrease in corporate criticized loans including the favorable resolution of corporate problem loans, lower ltv ratios in the residential mortgage loan portfolio, and a reduction in delinquent residential mortgage loans. the allowance for loan losses of $147.6 million as of september 30, 2014 increased $11.1 million from the prior year due to significant loan growth, yet reflected the positive impact from improved economic conditions as the allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding declined to 1.33% at september 30, 2014 from 1.52% at september 30, 2013 . the current year's provision for loan loss also includes $1.6 million resulting from the impact of the banking regulators' annual snc exam. the prior year's provision for loan losses included $5.6 million resulting from the impact of the respective period's annual snc exam (see the loan loss provisions arising from operations of rj bank section of the critical accounting estimates in this item 7, for additional information regarding the annual snc exam). 83 index the following table presents net loan charge-offs and the percentage of net loan charge-offs to the average outstanding loan balances by loan portfolio segment: for the year ended september 30, 2014 2013 2012 net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (1,829 ) 0.03 % $ (696 ) 0.01 % $ (10,486 ) 0.22 % cre loans 64 (7,919 ) 0.73 % (926 ) 0.11 % residential mortgage loans (17 ) (4,472 ) 0.26 % (12,727 ) 0.73 % sbl 35 (222 ) 0.05 % (75 ) 0.08 % total $ (1,747 ) 0.02 % $ (13,309 ) 0.15 % $ (24,214 ) 0.32 % for the year ended september 30, 2011 2010 net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan charge-off amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (458 ) 0.01 % $ cre loans (13,534 ) 1.70 % (54,053 ) 5.56 % residential mortgage loans (20,757 ) 1.12 % (29,548 ) 1.34 % sbl (246 ) 3.55 % total $ (34,995 ) 0.56 % $ (83,601 ) 1.30 % the level of charge-off activity is a factor that is considered in evaluating the potential for and severity of future credit losses. the 87% decline in net charge-offs compared to the prior year was primarily attributable to reductions in net charge-offs within the cre and residential mortgage loan portfolios. the net charge-offs in the residential mortgage loan portfolio in fiscal year 2014 reflect recoveries of $2 million, which are becoming prevalent in the residential mortgage loan portfolio as home price appreciation over the past several quarters has resulted in loan balances being collected through sale or refinance proceeds that exceed written down balances. 84 index the table below presents nonperforming loans and total allowance for loan losses: september 30, 2014 september 30, 2013 september 30, 2012 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance (in thousands) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans $ $ (103,179 ) $ 89 $ (95,994 ) $ 19,517 $ (92,409 ) cre construction loans (1,594 ) (1,000 ) (739 ) cre loans 18,876 (25,022 ) 25,512 (19,266 ) 8,404 (27,546 ) tax-exempt loans (1,380 ) residential mortgage loans 61,789 (14,350 ) 76,357 (19,126 ) 78,739 (26,138 ) sbl (2,049 ) (1,115 ) (709 ) total $ 80,665 $ (147,574 ) $ 101,958 $ (136,501 ) $ 106,660 $ (147,541 ) total nonperforming loans as a % of rj bank total loans 0.73 % 1.14 % 1.31 % september 30, 2011 september 30, 2010 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ (5 ) $ $ (23 ) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 25,685 (81,267 ) (60,464 ) cre construction loans (490 ) (4,473 ) cre loans 15,842 (30,752 ) 67,901 (47,771 ) residential mortgage loans 91,796 (33,210 ) 86,082 (34,297 ) sbl (20 ) (56 ) total $ 133,323 $ (145,744 ) $ 153,983 $ (147,084 ) total nonperforming loans as a % of rj bank total loans 1.99 % 2.47 % the level of nonperforming loans is another indicator of potential future credit losses. the amount of nonperforming loans decreased 21% during the year ended september 30, 2014 . this decrease was primarily due to a $15 million reduction in nonperforming residential mortgage loans and a $7 million reduction in nonperforming cre loans. included in nonperforming residential mortgage loans are $51 million in loans for which $27.9 million in charge-offs were previously recorded, resulting in less exposure within the remaining balance. the nonperfoming loans above excludes $13.5 million, $10.2 million, $12.9 million, $10.3 million, and $8.2 million as of september 30, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively, of residential troubled debt restructurings ( tdr ) which were returned to accrual status in accordance with our policy. loan underwriting policies a component of rj bank's credit risk management strategy is conservative, well-defined policies and procedures. rj bank's underwriting policies for the major types of loans are: sbl and residential mortgage loan portfolio rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio consists of first mortgage loans originated by rj bank via referrals from our pcg financial advisors and the general public as well as first mortgage loans purchased by rj bank. all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to strict underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of the borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). approximately 90% of the residential loans are fully documented loans and 98% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio is owner-occupant borrowers for their primary or second home residences, of which approximately 80% is for their primary residences. approximately 20% of the first lien residential 85 index mortgage loans are arms with interest-only payments based on a fixed rate for an initial period of the loan, typically five to seven years, then become fully amortizing, subject to annual and lifetime interest rate caps. a high percentage of our originated 15 or 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market. rj bank's sbl portfolio is comprised of loans fully collateralized by client's marketable securities and represents approximately 9% of rj bank's total loan portfolio. the underwriting policy for rj bank's sbl primarily includes a review of collateral, including ltv, with a limited review of repayment history and the debt-to-income ratio of the borrower. while rj bank has chosen not to participate in any government-sponsored loan modification programs, its loan modification policy does take into consideration some of the programs' parameters and supports every effort to assist borrowers within the guidelines of safety and soundness. in general, rj bank considers the qualification terms outlined in the government-sponsored programs as well as the affordability test and other factors. rj bank retains flexibility to determine the appropriate modification structure and required documentation to support the borrower's current financial situation before approving a modification. short sales are also used by rj bank to mitigate credit losses. corporate loan portfolio rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is comprised of approximately 420 borrowers, the majority of which are underwritten, managed and reviewed at rj bank's corporate headquarters location, which facilitates close monitoring of the portfolio by credit risk personnel, relationship officers and senior rj bank executives. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is diversified among a number of industries in both the u.s. and canada and comprised of project finance real estate loans, commercial lines of credit and term loans, the majority of which are participations in snc or other large syndicated loans, and tax-exempt loans. rj bank is sometimes involved in the syndication of the loan at inception and some of these loans have been purchased in the secondary trading markets. as the process for evaluating the sncs or other large syndications is consistent with the process for the other c&amp;i, cre and cre construction loans in the portfolio, there is no additional credit risk with syndicated loans as compared to any other c&amp;i, cre and cre construction loan in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's tax-exempt loans are long-term loans to governmental and nonprofit entities. these loans generally have lower overall credit risk, but are subject to other risks that are not usually present with corporate clients including the risk associated with the constituency served by a local government and the risk in ensuring an obligation has appropriate tax treatment. the remainder of the corporate loan portfolio is comprised of smaller participations and direct loans. there are no subordinated loans or mezzanine financings in the corporate loan portfolio. regardless of the source, all corporate loans are independently underwritten to rj bank credit policies and are subject to loan committee approval, and credit quality is monitored on an on-going basis by rj bank's corporate lending staff. rj bank credit policies include criteria related to ltv limits based upon property type, single borrower loan limits, loan term and structure parameters (including guidance on leverage, debt service coverage ratios and debt repayment ability), industry concentration limits, secondary sources of repayment, municipality demographics, and other criteria. a large portion of rj bank's corporate loans are to borrowers in industries in which we have expertise, through coverage provided by our capital markets research analysts. more than half of rj bank's corporate borrowers are public companies. rj bank's corporate loans are generally secured by all assets of the borrower, in some instances are secured by mortgages on specific real estate, and with respect to tax-exempt loans, are generally secured by a pledge of revenue. in a limited number of transactions, loans in the portfolio are extended on an unsecured basis. in addition, all corporate loans are subject to rj bank's regulatory review. risk monitoring process another component of the credit risk strategy at rj bank is the ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all residential, sbl and corporate credit exposures. there are various other factors included in these processes, depending on the loan portfolio. sbl and residential mortgage loans we track and review many factors to monitor credit risk in rj bank's sbl and residential mortgage loan portfolios. the qualitative factors include, but are not limited to: loan performance trends, loan product parameters and qualification requirements, borrower credit scores, occupancy (i.e., owner occupied, second home or investment property), level of documentation, loan purpose, geographic concentrations, average loan size, and loan policy exceptions. these qualitative measures, while considered and reviewed in establishing the allowance for loan losses, have generally not resulted in any quantitative adjustments to rj bank's historical loss rates. in addition to historical loss rates, one other quantitative factor utilized for the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio is updated ltv ratios. rj bank obtains the most recently available information (generally on a quarter lag) to estimate current ltv ratios on the individual loans in the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio. current ltv ratios are estimated based on the initial appraisal obtained at the time of origination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing price changes that have occurred 86 index since origination. the value of the homes could vary from actual market values due to change in the condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price changes within current valuation indices and other factors. the current average estimated ltv is approximately 60% for the total residential mortgage loan portfolio. residential mortgage loans with estimated ltvs between 100% and 120% represent only 2% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio and residential mortgage loans with estimated ltvs in excess of 120% represent less than 1% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio. credit risk management utilizes this data in conjunction with delinquency statistics, loss experience and economic circumstances to establish appropriate allowance for loan losses for the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which is based upon an estimate for the probability of default and loss given default for each homogeneous class of loans. the marketable collateral securing rj bank's sbl is monitored on a daily basis. collateral adjustments are made by the borrower as necessary to ensure rj bank's loans are adequately secured, resulting in minimizing its credit risk. residential mortgage loan delinquency levels are elevated by historical standards at rj bank due to the economic downturn and the high level of unemployment, however, the levels have improved during fiscal year 2014 . our sbl portfolio, however, has not experienced high levels of delinquencies to date. at september 30, 2014 and september 30, 2013 , there were no delinquent sbl. at september 30, 2014 , loans over 30 days delinquent (including nonperforming loans) decreased to 2.34% of residential mortgage loans outstanding, compared to 2.87% over 30 days delinquent at september 30, 2013 . additionally, our september 30, 2014 percentage compares favorably to the national average for over 30 day delinquencies of 7.31% as most recently reported by the fed. rj bank's significantly lower delinquency rate as compared to its peers is the result of both our uniform underwriting policies and the lack of non-traditional loan products and subprime loans. the following table presents a summary of delinquent residential mortgage loans: delinquent residential loans (amount) delinquent residential loans as a percentage of outstanding loan balances 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) ($ in thousands) september 30, 2014 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 4,756 $ 35,803 $ 40,559 0.27 % 2.07 % 2.34 % home equity loans/lines 57 398 455 0.28 % 1.96 % 2.24 % total residential mortgage loans $ 4,813 $ 36,201 $ 41,014 0.27 % 2.06 % 2.34 % september 30, 2013 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 6,824 $ 43,004 $ 49,828 0.40 % 2.49 % 2.89 % home equity loans/lines 372 372 1.66 % 1.66 % total residential mortgage loans $ 6,824 $ 43,376 $ 50,200 0.39 % 2.48 % 2.87 % (1) comprised of loans which are two or more payments past due as well as loans in process of foreclosure. to manage and limit credit losses, we maintain a rigorous process to manage our loan delinquencies. with all whole loans purchased generally on a servicing-retained basis and all originated first mortgages serviced by a third party, the primary collection effort resides with the servicer. rj bank personnel direct and actively monitor the servicers' efforts through extensive communications regarding individual loan status changes and requirements of timely and appropriate collection or property management actions and reporting, including management of third parties used in the collection process (appraisers, attorneys, etc.). additionally, every residential mortgage loan over 60 days past due is reviewed by rj bank personnel monthly and documented in a written report detailing delinquency information, balances, collection status, appraised value, and other data points. rj bank senior management meets monthly to discuss the status, collection strategy and charge-off/write-down recommendations on every residential mortgage loan over 60 days past due. updated collateral valuations are obtained for loans over 90 days past due and charge-offs are taken on individual loans based on these valuations. 87 index credit risk is also managed by diversifying the residential mortgage loan portfolio. the geographic concentrations (top five states) of rj bank's one-to-four family residential mortgage loans are as follows: september 30, 2014 september 30, 2013 ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 2.9 % fl 3.0 % fl 2.0 % ca (1) 2.4 % ca (1) 0.9 % ny 1.2 % ny 0.7 % nj 0.8 % nj 0.6 % tx 0.7 % va (1) the concentration ratio for the state of california excludes 1.0% for september 30, 2014 and 1.4% for september 30, 2013 for loans purchased from a large investment grade institution that have full repurchase recourse for any delinquent loans. loans where borrowers may be subject to payment increases include adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms that initially require payment of interest only. payments may increase significantly when the interest-only period ends and the loan principal begins to amortize. at september 30, 2014 and september 30, 2013 , these loans totaled $307 million and $363 million, respectively, or approximately 20% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio during both time periods. at september 30, 2014 , the balance of amortizing, former interest-only, loans totaled $313.6 million. the weighted average number of years before the remainder of the loans, which were still in their interest-only period at september 30, 2014 , begins amortizing is 2.6 years. the outstanding balance of loans that were interest-only at origination and based on their contractual terms are scheduled to reprice are as follows: september 30, 2014 (in thousands) one year or less $ 195,347 over one year through two years 9,365 over two years through three years 7,219 over three years through four years 23,863 over four years through five years 22,119 over five years 49,160 total outstanding residential interest-only loan balance $ 307,073 a component of credit risk management for the residential portfolio is the ltv and borrower credit score at origination or purchase. the most recent ltv/fico scores at origination of rj bank's residential first mortgage loan portfolio are as follows: september 30, 2014 september 30, 2013 residential first mortgage loan weighted-average ltv/fico (1) 66%/754 66%/754 (1) at origination. small group of local loans representing less than 1% of residential portfolio excluded. corporate loans credit risk in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is monitored on an individual loan basis for trends in borrower operating performance, payment history, credit ratings, collateral performance, loan covenant compliance, annual snc exam results, municipality demographics, and other factors including industry performance and concentrations. as part of the credit review process the loan grade is reviewed at least quarterly to confirm the appropriate risk rating for each credit. the individual loan ratings resulting from the annual snc exam are incorporated in rj bank's internal loan ratings when the ratings are received and if the snc rating is lower on an individual loan than rj bank's internal rating, the loan is downgraded. while rj bank considers historical snc exam results in its loan ratings methodology, differences between the snc exam and internal ratings on individual loans typically arise due to subjectivity of the loan classification process. these differences may result in additional provision for loan losses in periods when snc exam results are received. see note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, specifically the bank loans and allowances for losses section, and critical accounting estimates in item 7 in this report, for additional information on rj bank's corporate loan portfolio and allowance for loan loss policies. at september 30, 2014 , other than loans classified as nonperforming, there was one government-guaranteed loan totaling $124 thousand that was delinquent greater than 30 days. 88 index credit risk is also managed by diversifying the corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio does not contain a significant concentration in any single industry. the industry concentrations (top five categories) of rj bank's corporate loans are as follows: september 30, 2014 september 30, 2013 ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total assets) 3.9 % pharmaceuticals 3.5 % media communications 3.6 % office 3.4 % business systems and services 3.2 % automotive/transportation 3.3 % automotive/transportation 3.2 % retail real estate 3.1 % pharmaceuticals 3.0 % hospitality 3.1 % retail real estate liquidity risk see the section entitled liquidity and capital resources in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this report for more information regarding our liquidity and how we manage liquidity risk. operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in our technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in our control processes including cyber security incidents (see the section entitled our businesses depend on technology in item 1a, risk factors in this report for a discussion of certain cyber security risks). we operate different businesses in diverse markets and are reliant on the ability of our employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes and complexity. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, we could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, we have developed and continue to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance, risk management and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that our various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. we have established an operational risk management committee, which is chaired by our chief operating officer and is comprised of senior managers, to review and address operational risks across our businesses. the committee establishes risk appetite levels for major operational risks, monitors operating unit performance for adherence to defined risk tolerances, and establishes policies for risk management at the enterprise level. regulatory and legal risk we have comprehensive procedures addressing regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of client funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money laundering and record keeping. we have designated anti-money laundering officers in each of our subsidiaries who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act. we act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, we have financial and legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives reviews proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material client or customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to either us or our customers. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout our operations. a quality of markets committee meets regularly to monitor the best execution activities of our trading departments as they relate to customer orders. this committee is comprised of representatives from the otc trading, listed trading, options, municipal 89 index trading, taxable trading, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of one of our senior officers. this committee reviews reports from the respective departments listed above and recommends action for improvement when necessary. our major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. our banking activities are highly regulated and subject to impact from changes in banking laws and regulations, including unanticipated rulings. present economic conditions have led to rapid introduction of significant regulatory programs or changes affecting consumer protection and disclosure requirements, financial reporting, and regulatory restructuring. regulatory requirements including recent changes to consumer and mortgage lending regulations, as well as new regulatory or government programs, are closely monitored and acted upon to ensure a timely response. see further discussion of our risks associated with new regulations, including the dodd-frank act, in item 1a, risk factors within this report. legal risk includes the risk of pcg client claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments, exposure to pre-closing date litigation matters of morgan keegan should regions fail to honor its indemnification obligations (see item 3 legal proceedings in this report and note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further discussion of the regions indemnification for such matters) and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct business. regulatory oversight of the financial services industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and we, as well as others in the industry, have been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. we have a number of outstanding claims resulting from, among other reasons, market conditions. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, we do, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion of our accounting policy regarding such matters in the loss provisions arising from legal proceedings section of critical accounting estimates contained within item 7, management's discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report and in note 2 of our notes to consolidated financial statements within this form 10-k. 90 indexrisk factors 16 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock or our senior notes which are listed on the nyse. the list of risk factors provided below is not exhaustive; there may be factors not discussed below or in this form 10-k that adversely impact our results of operations, harm our reputation or inhibit our ability to generate new business prospects. risks related to our business and industry damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, customers, investors and associates. if we fail to deal with, or appear to fail to deal with, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity and privacy, recordkeeping, sales and trading practices, failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. a failure to maintain appropriate standards of service and quality, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and harm to our reputation. further, negative publicity regarding us, whether or not true, may also harm our future business prospects. we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are generally affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including levels of economic output, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. these conditions may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. at times over the last several years we have experienced operating cycles during weak and uncertain u.s. and global economic conditions, including low levels of economic output, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, relatively high rates of unemployment, and significant uncertainty with regards to fiscal and monetary policy both domestically and abroad. these 16 index conditions led to several changes in the global financial markets that from time to time negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability. while the global financial markets have showed general signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. a period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, prolonged continuation of the artificially low level of short term interest rates, a return to increased dislocations in the credit markets, reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors could significantly impair our revenues and profitability. we could experience a decline in commission revenue from a lower volume of trades we execute for our clients, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory and other services, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers' and market participants' failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. these periods of reduced revenue and other losses could be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses including but not limited to our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and, our ability to reduce them over short periods of time is limited. u.s. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in the middle east and in eastern europe and russia. concerns about the european union's ( eu ) sovereign debt in recent years, including the greek government bailout, has caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the eu's financial support programs and the possibility exists that other eu member states may experience similar financial troubles in the future. any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these matters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. our businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the united states, foreign governments, and domestic and international agencies. the fed regulates the supply of money and credit in the united states. fed policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. we may also be indirectly impacted by fiscal and monetary policy enacted in various global markets. u.s. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures caused by the ongoing less than optimal economic environment and ongoing concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality. if these trends continue or worsen, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and, in turn, reduce investment banking revenues. in addition, such factors could adversely affect the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio. rj bank is particularly affected by economic conditions in north america. market conditions in the united states and canada can be assessed through the following metrics: the level and volatility of interest rates; the rates of unemployment and under-employment; real estate prices; the level of consumer confidence; changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. the deterioration of these factors can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity, or the amount of capital that is readily available for investment, spending, or to meet our contractual obligations, is essential to our business. our inability to maintain adequate levels of capital in the form of cash and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, and cutting or eliminating the dividends we pay to our shareholders. some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, changes imposed by regulators to our liquidity or capital requirements in our subsidiaries that may prevent the upstream of dividends in the form of cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets for our company, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. the availability of outside financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on a variety of factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector, and our credit ratings. our cost and availability of funding may be adversely 17 index affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease to provide, funding to borrowers as a result of future concerns over the strength of specific counterparties, as well as the stability of markets generally. if our credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our relationships with clients. such a reduction in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our incremental borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions (see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for such information as of september 30, 2015 ). a credit downgrade would also result in rjf incurring a higher commitment fee on any unused balance on its $300 million revolving credit facility executed on august 6, 2015, in addition to triggering a higher interest rate applicable to any borrowings outstanding on the line as of and subsequent to such downgrade (see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - sources of liquidity for information on this revolving credit facility). furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the fed, the fdic, and the sec (through finra) have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the subsidiaries to their parent, for the subsidiaries they supervise. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we are exposed to market risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives, and venture capital and private equity investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity. our venture capital and private equity investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. 18 index see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their performance obligations due to numerous causes, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failure, among others. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers market making and underwriting businesses, which exposes us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face the risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold certain securities, loans and derivatives in our trading accounts. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses. we borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and/or resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits, as well as by monitoring collateral and transaction levels on a daily basis. a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to concerns in the market about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. we may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or substitute collateral pledged. in the case of aged securities failed to receive, we may, under industry regulations, purchase the underlying securities in the market and seek reimbursement for any losses from the counterparty. also, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if the clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals through the offering of: c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, among others. we incur credit risk through our investments, which include mbs, collateralized mortgage obligations, auction rate securities, and other municipal securities. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, acts of terrorism, severe weather events or other adverse economic events, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our available for sale securities portfolio. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. 19 index our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries, and on advisory fees. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management ( aum ). aum balances are impacted by net inflow/outflow of client assets and market values. below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impact our business and financial condition. if we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline. in addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues. our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, we may incur losses as a result of proprietary positions we hold in connection with our market making or underwriting activities. from time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results. we have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. there is risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. as a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. furthermore, although we do not hold any eu sovereign debt, we may do business with and be exposed to financial institutions that have been affected by the eu sovereign debt circumstances. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. although we have not suffered any material or significant losses 20 index as a result of the failure of any financial counterparty, any such losses in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have experienced increased pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. our business continues to experience increased pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters. under the definitive stock purchase agreement, dated january 11, 2012, entered into by rjf and regions, governing our acquisition of morgan keegan (the spa ), regions has ongoing obligations to continue to indemnify rjf with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters. specifically, the terms of the spa provide that regions will indemnify rjf for losses incurred in connection with legal proceedings pending as of the closing date, april 2, 2012, or commenced thereafter and related to pre-closing matters that are received prior to april 2, 2015, as well as any cost of defense pertaining thereto. rjf is relying on regions to continue fulfilling its indemnification obligations under the spa with respect to such matters. our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions, or our failure to recover losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement, and any adverse judgments, and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels. see note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding the indemnification from regions. growth of our business could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks. integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. we may incur significant expenses in connection with further expansion of our existing businesses, or recruitment of financial advisors, or in connection with strategic acquisitions or investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such investment or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. moreover, to the extent we pursue strategic acquisitions, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms, or be unable to successfully integrate the operations of any acquired business into our existing business. such acquisitions could be of significant size and/or complexity. this effort, together with difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise equity capital or borrow to finance such acquisitions, which could dilute our shareholders or increase our leverage. any such borrowings might not be available on terms as favorable to us as our current borrowings, or perhaps at all. we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), location and reputation in relevant markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent 21 index entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms and hedge funds, among others. this competition could cause our business to suffer. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. the inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, we may incur substantial expenditures to keep pace with the constant changes and enhancements being made in technology, including improvements made to internet connectivity, networking and telecommunications systems. our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business. our ability to develop and retain our client base depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our senior professionals, particularly our managing directors, and the members of our executive committees, as well as employees and financial advisors. to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. the reputations and relationships of our senior professionals with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagement. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. turnover in the financial services industry is high. the cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. employers in the industry are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. to the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are not within our target range. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. if we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a new or existing competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. if we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims in the past and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. we are exposed to operational risk. our diverse operations expose us to risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, external events, including technological or connectivity failures either at the exchanges in which we do business or between our data center, operations processing sites or our branches. our businesses depend on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse markets. the inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. operational risk exists in every activity, function or unit of our business, and can take the form of internal or external fraud, employment and hiring practices, an error in meeting a professional obligation, or failure to meet corporate fiduciary standards. it is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. if our employees engage in misconduct, our businesses would be adversely affected. operational risk also exists in the event of business disruption, system failures or failed transaction processing. third parties with which we do business could also be a source of operational risk, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of the systems or misconduct by the employees of such parties. in addition as we change processes or introduce new products and services, we may not fully appreciate 22 index or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. increasing use of automated technology has the potential to amplify risks from manual or system processing errors, including outsourced operations. our existing business contingency plan is intended to ensure that we have the ability to recover our critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff and technology, in the event of a systemic business interruption. despite the diligence we have applied to the development and testing of our plans, due to unforeseen factors, our ability to conduct business may in any case be adversely affected by a disruption involving physical site access, catastrophic events including weather related events, events involving electrical, environmental or communications malfunctions, as well as events impacting services provided by others that we rely upon which could impact our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing operational risk. associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. there have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by associates in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. for example, our banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. if our associates were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. we are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. in addition our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management. the violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely affect our clients and us. it is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. if our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. our businesses depend on technology. our businesses rely extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to: successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our technology systems; address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands; and retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our technology systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other applicable laws and regulatory sanctions. the expectations of sound operational and informational security practices have risen among our clients and customers, the public at large and regulators. thus, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, cyberattacks and breakdowns. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although cyber security incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyberattacks or other information security breaches. however, there can be no assurances that we will not suffer such losses in the future. despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have an impact on the security and stability of our operations. notwithstanding the precautions taken by us and measures put in place, if one or more of these events were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, including that of our clients and counterparties, which is processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our clients and counterparties. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications. 23 index we may also be subject to litigation and financial losses that are neither insured nor covered under any of our current insurance policies. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. extraordinary trading volumes beyond reasonably foreseeable spikes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail entirely. while we have invested resources to maintain the reliability and scalability of our systems and maintain hardware to address extraordinary volumes, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle truly extraordinary and unforeseen circumstances. systems failures and delays could occur and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients or slower system response times, resulting in client dissatisfaction due to transactions not being processed as quickly as desired. in providing services to clients, we may manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. as a result, we may be subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as u.s. federal and state laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information and international laws. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. if any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. in addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue. potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant. depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. certain of our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted out of our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee locations and our information systems processing to be conducted out of our information technology data center in the denver, colorado area, our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. refer to the we are exposed to credit risk risk factor in this item 1a for a discussion of how events, including weather events, could adversely impact rj bank's loan portfolio. refer to the we are exposed to operational risk risk factor in this item 1a for a discussion of how weather-related events could impact our ability to conduct business. we are exposed to litigation risks, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and prospects. many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability arising out of the normal course of business. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our associates could result in substantial liability. the failure of our advisors to fully understand investor needs or risk tolerances may result in the recommendation or purchase of a portfolio of assets that may not be suitable for the investor. to the extent we fail to fully understand our clients or improperly advise them, we could be found liable for losses suffered by such clients, which could harm our business. our private client group business segment has historically been more susceptible to litigation than our institutional businesses. in highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities laws or other laws for: alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions; issues related to the suitability of our investment advice based on our clients' investment objectives; the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions; contractual issues; employment claims; and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial impact or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and future business prospects. in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 24 index with regard to morgan keegan, a number of the types of claims and matters described above arising prior to our acquisition, that are received prior to april 2, 2015, are subject to indemnification from regions. refer to the separate risk factor in this section entitled regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters for a discussion of the risks associated with these indemnifications. see item 3, legal proceedings in this report for a discussion of our legal matters and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for a discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in the real estate and credit markets may increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting estimates, in this report for additional information on the nature of these estimates. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available for sale securities including auction rate securities ( ars ), certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means, which ultimately rely to some degree on our subjective judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective and, consequently, based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment, as well as declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) and the sec have at times revised the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting estimates discussion within item 7 in this report, and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. in december 2012, the fasb issued a proposed standard on accounting for credit losses. the standard would replace multiple existing impairment models, including the replacement of the incurred loss model for loans with an expected loss model. the fasb announced it will establish the effective date when it issues the final standard. we cannot predict when a final standard will be issued, when it will be made effective, what its final provisions will encompass, or the potential impact its eventual adoption may have on our retained earnings. our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be fully effective. our banking and trading processes seek to balance our ability to profit from banking and trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we utilize limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate unforeseen economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. 25 index further, our risk management methods may not effectively predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. a failure to adequately manage our growth, or to effectively manage our risk, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts, all of which are under growing scrutiny by federal and state regulators in the united states. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. we have procedures and controls in place to address conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report. we are exposed to risk from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world, including a few developing regions commonly known as emerging markets, and as a result, are exposed to a number of risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, less established regulatory regimes, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative, economic and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from the trading of non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the abovementioned factors. the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because non-u.s. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are generally smaller and less developed, less liquid and more volatile than u.s. trading markets. additionally, a political, economic or financial disruption in a country or region could adversely impact our business and increase volatility in financial markets generally. we have risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly: property and casualty, workers' compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund, among others. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. risks related to our regulatory environment financial services firms have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. firms in the financial services industry have been operating in an onerous regulatory environment, which will become even more stringent in light of recent well-publicized failures of regulators to detect and prevent fraud. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the sec, the fed, the occ and the cfpb, in addition to stock exchanges, finra and state attorneys general. penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and sros. each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many different aspects of financial services, including, but not limited to, the authority to fine us and to grant, cancel, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on the right to continue operating particular businesses. for example, the failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the exchange act on broker-dealers and the investment advisers act of 1940 on investment advisers, including recordkeeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, 26 index or by the investment company act of 1940 (the 1940 act ), could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. we also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or sros (e.g., finra) that supervise the financial markets. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action taken against us could harm our business prospects through adverse financial effects and reputational harm. changes in regulations resulting from either the dodd-frank act or any new regulations or laws may affect our businesses. the market and economic conditions over the past several years have directly led to a demand by the public for changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated, including a call for more stringent legislation and regulation in the united states and abroad. the dodd-frank act enacted sweeping changes and an unprecedented increase in the supervision and regulation of the financial services industry (see item 1, regulation, in this report for a discussion of such changes, including the volcker rule). the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy at large cannot be specifically ascertained until all of the implementing regulations called for under the legislation have been finalized and fully implemented. nevertheless, it is apparent that these legislative and regulatory changes could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of our assets, require us to alter at least some of our business practices, impose additional costs, and otherwise adversely affect our businesses. the dodd-frank act impacts the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and operations, and interact with regulators, all of which could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that have or may impact our businesses include: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers; regulatory oversight of incentive compensation; the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies and to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading; and restrictions on proprietary trading. there is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain thresholds established under the dodd-frank act. these include, but are not limited to, rj bank's oversight by the cfpb. the cfpb has been active in investigating products, services, and operations of credit providers, including banks, for compliance with various consumer protection laws, such as the truth in lending act, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair credit reporting act, and the real estate settlement procedures act. any actions taken by the cfpb could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make them less attractive, and restrict our ability to offer them, in addition to increasing our regulatory and compliance costs. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. in december 2013, the final version of the volcker rule was adopted (see item 1, regulation, in this report for discussion of the volcker rule) and became effective april 1, 2014. we were required to comply with the volcker rule's provisions starting on july 21, 2015. although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of proprietary trading for our own trading account, due to our underwriting and market making activities, the volcker rule will likely adversely affect our results of operations through increased operational and compliance costs, possible reductions in our trading revenues, and changes to our principal capital private equity investments. the basel iii capital standards will impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our competitiveness and profitability. in july 2013, the fed, the occ and the fdic released final u.s. basel iii regulatory capital rules, which implemented the global regulatory capital reforms of basel iii and certain changes required by the dodd-frank act. these rules increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establish a capital conservation buffer, and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. the regulatory capital rule became effective for us january 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for several of its provisions, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer, and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. the increased capital requirements could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could be adversely affected. we continue to evaluate the impact of the capital rules on both rj bank and rjf. 27 index failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to rjf, rj bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business. rjf and rj bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by various federal regulators, and, accordingly, must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. the capital amounts and classification for both rjf and rj bank are also subject to qualitative judgments by u. s. federal regulators based on components of our capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rjf and rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, tier 1 capital to average assets (as defined in the regulations), and under rules defined in basel iii, common equity tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either rjf or rj bank's operations and our financial condition. as more fully discussed in item 1, regulation, in this report, rjf is required to perform annual stress tests using certain scenarios provided by the fed. while we believe that both the quality and magnitude of our capital base is sufficient to support our current operations given our risk profile, the results of the stress testing process may affect our approach to managing and deploying capital. additionally, as rjf is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund payments of its obligations, including debt service. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and finra's net capital rule, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital that a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. in addition, our canada-based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction by iiroc. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds the holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. see note 26 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. we operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the securities industry is subject to extensive and constantly changing regulation, and broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, anti-money laundering efforts, recordkeeping, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. a violation of any of these laws or regulations could subject us to: civil and criminal liability; sanctions, which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers; the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors; censures; fines; or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to financial holding company regulatory reporting requirements, including the maintenance of certain risk-based regulatory capital levels that could impact various capital allocation decisions of one or more of our businesses. a failure to satisfy the risk-based regulatory capital levels could require us to halt certain activities permitted under the bank holding company act of 1956. however, due to our strong current capital position, we do not anticipate that these capital level requirements will have any negative impact on our future business activities. see the section entitled business - regulation of item 1 in this report for additional information. as a financial holding company, we are regulated by the fed. rj bank is regulated by the occ, the fed, the cfpb, and the fdic. this oversight includes, but is not limited to, scrutiny with respect to affiliate transactions and compliance with consumer regulations. the economic and political environment over the past several years has caused increased attention on the regulation of the financial services industry, including many proposals for new rules. any new rules issued by u.s. regulators that oversee the financial services industry could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our 28 index business, financial condition, and results of operations. we also may be adversely affected as a result of changes in federal, state, or foreign tax laws, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the 1940 act, with respect to how mutual funds pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their share . the staff of the sec's office of compliance, inspections and examinations has indicated that it is reviewing the use of fund assets to pay for fees to sub-transfer agents and sub-administrators for services that may be deemed to be distribution-related. any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, their impact cannot be predicted at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries, which have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors, and broker-dealers. as some of our wholly owned subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the sec, increased regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in augmented operational and compliance costs, or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. it is not possible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations, or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. conformance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. for example, pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors. it is not clear whether the sec will determine that a heightened standard of conduct is appropriate for broker-dealers; however, any such standard, if mandated, would likely require us to review our product and service offerings and implement certain changes, as well as require that we incur additional regulatory costs in order to ensure compliance. in addition, the u.s. and foreign governments have recently taken regulatory actions impacting the investment management industry, and may continue to take further actions, including expanding current or enacting new standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. for example, several states and municipalities in the united states have recently adopted pay-to-play rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees. such pay-to-play rules could affect the profitability of that portion of our business. additionally, the use of soft dollars, where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may in the future be limited or modified. a substantial portion of the research relied on by our investment management business in the investment decision making process is generated internally by our investment analysts and external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars. this external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third party provided databases and research services. if the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these additional costs. furthermore, new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products may impact our investment management business and result in increased costs. for example, many regulators around the world adopted disclosure and reporting requirements relating to the hedge fund businesses or other businesses, and changes to the laws, rules and regulations in the united states related to the over-the-counter swaps and derivatives markets require additional registration, recordkeeping and reporting obligations. see the section entitled business - regulation within item 1 in this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. rj bank is subject to the community reinvestment act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties. the cra, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair housing act and other u.s. federal fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. the u.s. department of justice and other federal agencies, including the cfpb, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. a successful challenge to an institution's performance under the cra or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil monetary penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion activity. private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws by bringing private class action litigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of our business and activities. management of these risks is critical to our fiscal soundness and profitability. our risk management processes are multi-faceted and require communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. we have a formal enterprise risk management ( erm ) program to assess and review aggregate risks across the firm. our management takes an active role in the erm process which requires specific administrative and business functions to participate in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the results of this process are extensively documented and reported to executive management and the rjf audit and risk committee of the board of directors. the principal risks involved in our business activities are market, credit, liquidity, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is our risk of loss resulting from changes in market prices of our inventory, hedge, interest-rate derivative and investment positions. we have exposure to market risk primarily through our broker-dealer trading operations and, to a lesser extent, through our banking operations. our broker-dealer subsidiaries, primarily rj&amp;a, trade taxable and tax-exempt debt obligations and act as an active market maker in over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, we maintain inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. rj bank holds investments in mbs, residential mortgage-backed securities, cmos and equity securities within its available for sale securities portfolio, and also from time-to-time may hold sba loan securitizations not yet transferred. additionally, we hold certain ars in a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf. see notes 2 , 5 , 6 and 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for fair value and other information regarding our trading inventories and available for sale securities. changes in value of our trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, obligor creditworthiness equity prices, macroeconomic factors, risk aversion, investor expectations, asset liquidity, and dynamic relationships among these factors. we manage our trading inventory by product type and have established trading divisions with responsibility for particular product types. our primary method of controlling risk in our trading inventory is through the establishment and monitoring of risk-based limits and limits on the dollar amount of securities positions held overnight in inventory. a hierarchy of limits exists at levels including firm, division, asset type (organized as trading desks, e.g., for otc equities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds) asset sub-type (e.g. below-investment grade positions), and individual trader. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed daily to senior management. trading positions are carefully monitored for potential limit violations. management likewise monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for our derivatives positions, which are composed primarily of interest rate swaps but include futures contracts and forward foreign exchange contracts, we monitor daily their exposure in our derivatives subsidiary against established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate, spread, ratio, basis, and volatility risk. these derivative exposures are monitored both on a total portfolio basis and separately for selected maturity periods. in the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. rj&amp;a and rj ltd., as a lead, co-lead or syndicate member in the underwriting deal, may be subject to market risk on any unsold shares issued in the offering to which we are committed. risk exposure is controlled by limiting participation, the deal size or through the syndication process. 79 index interest rate risk trading activities we are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of our trading inventories (primarily comprised of fixed income instruments) in our capital markets segment, as well as our rj bank operations. we actively manage the interest rate risk arising from our fixed income trading securities through the use of hedging techniques that involve u.s. treasury securities and futures contracts, liquid spread products, and swaps. we monitor daily, the value-at-risk ( var ) for all of our trading portfolios. var is an appropriate statistical technique for estimating potential losses in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements over a specified time horizon with a suitable confidence level. we apply the fed's market risk rule ( mrr ) for the purpose of calculating our capital ratios. the mrr, also known as the risk-based capital guidelines: market risk rule released by the fed, occ and fdic, requires us to calculate var numbers for all of our trading portfolios, including fixed income, equity, foreign exchange, and derivative instruments. to calculate var, we use historical simulation. this approach assumes that historical changes in market conditions, such as in interest rates and equity prices, are representative of future changes. the simulation is based on daily market data for the previous twelve months. var is reported at a 99% confidence level for a one-day time horizon. assuming that future market conditions change as they have in the past twelve months, we would expect to incur losses greater than those predicted by our one-day var estimates about once every 100 trading days, or about three times per year on average. for regulatory capital calculation purposes, we also report var numbers for a ten-day time horizon. we continually monitor our var computational model to ensure its calculated results accurately portray risks within our trading portfolios. during the quarter ended march 31, 2015, after independent validation and regulatory approval, we implemented a new var model for measuring the market risk of all of our trading portfolios. in comparing var results from the old model versus the new one, all else equal, the var from the new model is higher than that from the old model because the new model incorporates an expanded set of risk factors, including those captured previously within stress testing. the fed's mrr requires us to perform daily back testing procedures of our var model, whereby we compare each day's projected var to its regulatory-defined daily trading losses, which excludes fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading. based on these daily ex ante versus ex post comparisons, we verify that the number of times that regulatory-defined daily trading losses exceed var is consistent with our expectations at a 99% confidence level. during the twelve months ended september 30, 2015, our regulatory-defined daily loss in our trading portfolios exceeded our predicted var four times. the following table sets forth the high, low, and daily average var for all of our trading portfolios, including fixed income, equity, and derivative instruments, as of the period and dates indicated: year ended september 30, 2015 var at september 30, high low daily average 2015 2014 (in thousands) daily var $ 2,040 $ 253 $ 946 $ 1,173 $ 565 (1) (1) as more fully discussed above, var at this date was computed under a previous historical computational model. the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while management believes that its assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. as a result, var statistics are more reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. separately, rjf provides additional market risk disclosures to comply with the mrr. the results of the application of this market risk capital rule are available on our website under our company - financial reports - market risk rule disclosure within 45 days after the end of each of our reporting periods (the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report). 80 index should markets suddenly become more volatile, actual trading losses may exceed var results presented on a single day and might accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. accordingly, management applies additional controls including position limits, a daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory, independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk, and review of issuer ratings, as well as stress testing. we utilize stress testing to complement our var analysis so as to measure risk under historical and hypothetical adverse scenarios. during volatile markets we may choose to pare our trading inventories to reduce risk. as a part of our fixed income public finance operations, rj&amp;a enters into forward commitments to purchase gnma or fnma mbs which are issued on behalf of various state and local hfa (see further description of these activities in the item 1 business, capital markets section in this report). these activities result in exposure to interest rate risk. in order to hedge the interest rate risk to which rj&amp;a would otherwise be exposed between the date of the commitment and the date of sale of the mbs, rj&amp;a enters into to be announced ( tba ) security contracts with investors for generic mbs securities at specific rates and prices to be delivered on settlement dates in the future. see notes 2 and 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding these activities and the related balances outstanding as of september 30, 2015 . see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding our derivative financial instruments. banking operations rj bank maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of c&amp;i loans, tax-exempt loans, sbl, and commercial and residential real estate loans, as well as mbs, cmo's, sba loan securitizations and a trading portfolio of corporate loans. those earning assets are primarily funded by rj bank's obligations to customers (i.e. customer deposits). based on its current earning asset portfolio, rj bank is subject to interest rate risk. the current economic environment has led to an extended period of low market interest rates. as a result, the majority of rj bank's adjustable rate assets and liabilities have experienced a reduction in interest rate yields and costs that reflect these very low market interest rates. during the year, rj bank has focused its interest rate risk analysis on the risk of market interest rates rising. rj bank analyzes interest rate risk based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range of interest rate scenarios. one of the objectives of rj bank's asset liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. this committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rj bank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis and economic value of equity ( eve ). simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. to ensure that rj bank is within its limits established for net interest income, a sensitivity analysis of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. rj bank utilizes an internally developed asset/liability model using standard industry software to analyze the available data. the model estimates changes in net interest income by calculating interest income and interest expense from existing assets and liabilities using current repricing, prepayment, and volume assumptions. various interest rate scenarios are modeled in order to determine the effect those scenarios may have on net interest income. in february 2015, we implemented a hedging strategy using interest rate swaps as a result of rj bank's asset and liability management process described above. for further information regarding this risk management objective, see the discussion of the rj bank interest hedges in the derivative contracts section of note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, and additional information in note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. the following table is an analysis of rj bank's estimated net interest income over a 12 month period based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own internal asset/liability model: instantaneous changes in rate net interest income projected change in net interest income ($ in thousands) +300 $476,122 7.52% +200 $474,199 7.08% +100 $474,138 7.07% 0 $442,836 -25 $427,767 (3.40)% 81 index refer to the net interest section of md&amp;a, in item 7 of this report, for a discussion and estimate of the potential favorable impact on rjf's pre-tax income that could result from a 100 basis point instantaneous rise in short-term interest rates applicable to rjf's entire operations. the eve analysis is a point in time analysis of current interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, which incorporates all cash flows over their estimated remaining lives, discounted at current rates. the eve approach is based on a static balance sheet and provides an indicator of future earnings and capital levels as the changes in eve indicate the anticipated change in the value of future cash flows. rj bank monitors sensitivity to changes in eve utilizing board approved limits. these limits set a risk tolerance to changing interest rates and assist rj bank in determining strategies for mitigating this risk as it approaches these limits. the following table presents an analysis of rj bank's estimated eve sensitivity based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own internal asset/liability model: instantaneous changes in rate projected change in eve +300 (5.85)% +200 (1.76)% +100 3.45% 0 -25 (3.40)% the following table shows the contractual maturities of rj bank's loan portfolio at september 30, 2015 , including contractual principal repayments. this table does not, however, include any estimates of prepayments. these prepayments could shorten the average loan lives and cause the actual timing of the loan repayments to differ significantly from those shown in the following table: due in one year or less &gt;one year five years &gt; 5 years total (1) (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ $ 108,872 $ 108,872 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 112,772 3,866,299 2,948,947 6,928,018 cre construction loans 35,634 80,211 46,511 162,356 cre loans 192,588 1,543,623 317,943 2,054,154 tax-exempt loans 484,537 484,537 residential mortgage loans 2,365 17,669 1,942,580 1,962,614 sbl 1,475,361 6,103 40 1,481,504 total loans held for investment 1,818,720 5,513,905 5,740,558 13,073,183 total loans $ 1,818,720 $ 5,513,905 $ 5,849,430 $ 13,182,055 (1) excludes any net unearned income and deferred expenses. 82 index the following table shows the distribution of the recorded investment of those rj bank loans that mature in more than one year between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at september 30, 2015 : interest rate type fixed adjustable total (1) (in thousands) loans held for sale $ 4,186 $ 104,686 $ 108,872 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 6,815,246 6,815,246 cre construction loans 126,722 126,722 cre loans 85,941 1,775,625 1,861,566 tax-exempt loans 484,537 484,537 residential mortgage loans 235,076 1,725,173 (2) 1,960,249 sbl 6,044 99 6,143 total loans held for investment 811,598 10,442,865 11,254,463 total loans $ 815,784 $ 10,547,551 $ 11,363,335 (1) excludes any net unearned income and deferred expenses. (2) see the discussion within the risk monitoring process section in item 7a of this report for additional information regarding rj bank's interest-only loan portfolio and related repricing schedule. equity price risk we are exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities and the investment activities of rj&amp;a and rj ltd. rj&amp;a's broker-dealer activities are primarily client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. we attempt to reduce the risk of loss inherent in our inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. foreign exchange risk we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to our investments in foreign subsidiaries as well as transactions denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar. rj bank has an investment in a canadian subsidiary, resulting in foreign exchange risk. to mitigate this risk, rj bank utilizes short-term, forward foreign exchange contracts. these derivative agreements are primarily accounted for as net investment hedges in the consolidated financial statements. see notes 2 and 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding these derivative contracts. we have foreign exchange risk in our investment in rj ltd., of approximately cdn $261 million at september 30, 2015 , which is not hedged. foreign exchange gains/losses related to this investment are primarily reflected in other comprehensive (loss) income ( oci ) on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, see note 22 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding all of our components of oci. we also have foreign exchange risk associated with our investments in subsidiaries located in the united kingdom, france, and south america. these investments are not hedged and we do not believe we have material foreign exchange risk either individually, or in the aggregate, pertaining to these subsidiaries. in addition, we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to our holdings of cash and certain other assets and liabilities, which result from transactions denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar. these foreign currency transactions are not hedged and the related gains/losses arising therefrom are reflected in other revenue on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. 83 index credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower's, issuer's or counterparty's ability to meet its financial obligations under contractual or agreed upon terms. the nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure and duration of that transaction, and the parties involved. credit risk is an integral component of the profit assessment of lending and other financing activities. we are engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. we are exposed to risk that these counterparties may not fulfill their obligations. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. we manage this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which may guarantee performance. our client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of our clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure results from client margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. we monitor exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and perform analysis on a regular basis in connection with our margin lending activities. we adjust our margin requirements if we believe our risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. in addition, when clients execute a purchase, we are at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, we may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, most private clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. we offer loans to financial advisors and certain key revenue producers, primarily for recruiting, transitional cost assistance, and retention purposes. we have credit risk and may incur a loss in the event that such borrower declares bankruptcy or is no longer affiliated with us. historically, such losses have not been significant due to our strong advisor retention and successful collection efforts. we are subject to concentration risk if we hold large positions, extend large loans to, or have large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist primarily of securities issued by the u.s. government or its agencies. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. we seek to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. the valuation of the non-agency cmos held as available for sale securities by rj bank is impacted by the credit risk associated with the underlying residential loans. underlying loan characteristics associated with this risk are considered in valuing these securities. ars held by a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf is impacted by the credit worthiness of the ars issuer. see note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for more information. rj bank has substantial corporate, sbl and residential mortgage loan portfolios. a significant downturn in the overall economy, deterioration in real estate values or a significant issue within any sector or sectors where rj bank has a concentration could result in large provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs. rj bank's strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all corporate, residential and sbl credit exposures. the strategy also includes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of all corporate loans and individual delinquent residential loans. the credit risk management process also includes an annual independent review of the credit risk monitoring process that performs assessments of compliance with corporate and residential mortgage credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit information. rj bank seeks to identify potential problem loans early, record any necessary risk rating changes and charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan losses. rj bank utilizes a comprehensive credit risk rating system to measure the credit quality of individual corporate loans and related unfunded lending commitments, including the probability of default and/or loss given default of each corporate loan and commitment outstanding. for its sbl and residential mortgage loans, rj bank utilizes the credit risk rating system used by bank regulators in measuring the credit quality of each homogeneous class of loans. 84 index rj bank's allowance for loan losses methodology are described in the critical accounting estimates section of this item 7 and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. as rj bank's loan portfolio is segregated into six portfolio segments, likewise, the allowance for loan losses is segregated by these same segments. the risk characteristics relevant to each portfolio segment are as follows: c&amp;i: loans in this segment are made to businesses and are generally secured by all assets of the business. repayment is expected from the cash flows of the respective business. unfavorable economic and political conditions, including the resultant decrease in consumer or business spending, may have an adverse effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre: loans in this segment are primarily secured by income-producing properties. for owner-occupied properties, the cash flows are derived from the operations of the business, and the underlying cash flows may be adversely affected by the deterioration in the financial condition of the operating business. the underlying cash flows generated by non-owner-occupied properties may be adversely affected by increased vacancy and rental rates, which are monitored on a quarterly basis. adverse developments in either of these areas may have a negative effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre construction: loans in this segment have similar risk characteristics of loans in the cre segment as described above. in addition, project budget overruns and performance variables related to the contractor and subcontractors may affect the credit quality of loans in this segment. with respect to commercial construction of residential developments, there is also the risk that the builder has a geographical concentration of developments. adverse developments in all of these areas may significantly affect the credit quality of the loans in this segment. tax-exempt: loans in this segment are made to governmental and nonprofit entities and are generally secured by a pledge of revenue, and in some cases, by a security interest in or a mortgage on the asset being financed. for loans to governmental entities, repayment is expected from a pledge of certain revenues or taxes. for nonprofit entities, repayment is expected from revenues which may include fundraising proceeds. these loans are subject to demographic risk therefore, much of the credit assessment of tax-exempt loans is driven by the entity's revenue base and general economic environment. adverse developments in either of these areas may have a negative effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. residential mortgage (includes home equity loans/lines): all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to stringent underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). rj bank does not originate or purchase option adjustable rate mortgage ( arm ) loans with negative amortization, reverse mortgages, or other types of non-traditional loan products. loans with deeply discounted teaser rates are not originated or purchased. all loans in this segment are collateralized by residential real estate and repayment is primarily dependent on the credit quality of the individual borrower. a decline in the strength of the economy, particularly unemployment rates and housing prices, among other factors, could have a significant effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. sbl: loans in this segment are secured by marketable securities at advance rates consistent with industry standards. these loans are monitored daily for adherence to ltv guidelines and when a loan exceeds the required ltv, a collateral call is issued. past due loans are minimal as any past due amounts result in a notice to the client for payment or the potential sale of securities which will bring the loan current and may bring the loan within the prescribed ltv guidelines. in evaluating credit risk, rj bank considers trends in loan performance, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions, industry or customer concentrations, the loan portfolio composition and macroeconomic factors. during fiscal year 2015 corporate profit levels continued to improve but have remained weak as compared to historic levels. unemployment rates have declined. retail sales continue to be sluggish and credit quality trends, while improved in some sectors, remain somewhat tenuous. the volatility in residential home values in certain geographies has continued to have an impact on residential mortgage loan performance. all of these factors have a potentially negative impact on loan performance and net charge-offs. however, during fiscal year 2015, corporate borrowers have continued to access the markets for new equity and debt. several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the allowance for loan losses at september 30, 2015 , including the risk profile of the portfolios, net charge-offs during the period, the level of nonperforming loans, and delinquency ratios. rj bank also considered the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors and the extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. rj bank further stratified the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio based upon updated ltv estimates with higher reserve percentages allocated to the higher ltv loans. finally, rj bank considered current economic conditions that might impact the portfolio. rj bank determined the allowance that was required for specific loan grades based on relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. on an ongoing basis, rj bank evaluates its methods for determining the allowance for each class of loans and makes enhancements it considers appropriate. 85 index changes in the allowance for loan losses of rj bank are as follows: for the year ended september 30, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 ($ in thousands) allowance for loan losses, beginning of year $ 147,574 $ 136,501 $ 147,541 $ 145,744 $ 147,084 provision for loan losses 23,570 13,565 2,565 25,894 33,655 charge-offs: c&amp;i loans (1,191 ) (1,845 ) (813 ) (10,486 ) (458 ) cre loans (16 ) (9,599 ) (2,000 ) (15,204 ) residential mortgage loans (1,667 ) (2,015 ) (6,771 ) (15,270 ) (22,501 ) sbl (254 ) (96 ) (255 ) total charge-offs (2,858 ) (3,876 ) (17,437 ) (27,852 ) (38,418 ) recoveries: c&amp;i loans 611 16 117 cre loans 3,773 80 1,680 1,074 1,670 residential mortgage loans 1,206 1,998 2,299 2,543 1,744 sbl 25 35 32 21 9 total recoveries 5,615 2,129 4,128 3,638 3,423 net recoveries (charge-offs) 2,757 (1,747 ) (13,309 ) (24,214 ) (34,995 ) foreign exchange translation adjustment (1,644 ) (745 ) (296 ) 117 allowance for loan losses, end of year $ 172,257 $ 147,574 $ 136,501 $ 147,541 $ 145,744 allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding 1.32 % 1.33 % 1.52 % 1.81 % 2.18 % the primary factors impacting the provision for loan losses during the year were significant loan growth offset by the favorable impact of generally improved credit characteristics of the loan portfolio. although we incurred substantial provision for loan losses associated with loan growth in both fiscal years 2015 and 2014, the majority of the year-over-year increase in the provision for loan losses resulted from the prior year benefiting to a greater extent than the current year, from improved credit characteristics of the loan portfolio. the allowance for loan losses of $172.3 million as of september 30, 2015 increased $24.7 million from the prior year due to additional loan portfolio growth, yet reflected the relatively stable credit characteristics of the loan portfolio as the allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding declined to 1.32% at september 30, 2015 from 1.33% at september 30, 2014 . the current year's provision for loan loss also includes $1.6 million resulting from the impact of the banking regulators' annual shared national credit ( snc ) exam. the snc exam included a review which represented 85% of the total held for investment corporate loan portfolio at such time. the prior year's provision for loan losses also included $1.6 million resulting from the impact of the respective period's annual snc exam. the prior year exam included a review which represented 83% of the total held for investment corporate loan portfolio at such time (see the corporate loans discussion within the risk monitoring process section of item 7a in this report, for additional information regarding how the annual snc exam impacts rj bank's credit review process). 86 index the following table presents net loan (charge-offs)/recoveries and the percentage of net loan (charge-offs)/recoveries to the average outstanding loan balances by loan portfolio segment: for the year ended september 30, 2015 2014 2013 net loan (charge-off)/recovery amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan (charge-off)/recovery amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan (charge-off) amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (580 ) 0.01 % $ (1,829 ) 0.03 % $ (696 ) 0.01 % cre loans 3,773 0.22 % 64 (7,919 ) 0.73 % residential mortgage loans (461 ) 0.02 % (17 ) (4,472 ) 0.26 % sbl 25 35 (222 ) 0.05 % total $ 2,757 0.02 % $ (1,747 ) 0.02 % $ (13,309 ) 0.15 % for the year ended september 30, 2012 2011 net loan (charge-off) amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan (charge-off) amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (10,486 ) 0.22 % $ (458 ) 0.01 % cre loans (926 ) 0.11 % (13,534 ) 1.70 % residential mortgage loans (12,727 ) 0.73 % (20,757 ) 1.12 % sbl (75 ) 0.08 % (246 ) 3.55 % total $ (24,214 ) 0.32 % $ (34,995 ) 0.56 % the level of charge-off activity is a factor that is considered in evaluating the potential for and severity of future credit losses. total net recoveries during fiscal year 2015 compared to total net charge-offs during the prior year reflect improved credit characteristics. charge-offs declined in both the c&amp;i and cre loan portfolios. 87 index the table below presents nonperforming loans and total allowance for loan losses: september 30, 2015 2014 2013 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance ( $ in thousands) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans $ $ (117,623 ) $ $ (103,179 ) $ 89 $ (95,994 ) cre construction loans (2,707 ) (1,594 ) (1,000 ) cre loans 4,796 (30,486 ) 18,876 (25,022 ) 25,512 (19,266 ) tax-exempt loans (5,949 ) (1,380 ) residential mortgage loans 47,823 (12,526 ) 61,789 (14,350 ) 76,357 (19,126 ) sbl (2,966 ) (2,049 ) (1,115 ) total $ 52,619 $ (172,257 ) $ 80,665 $ (147,574 ) $ 101,958 $ (136,501 ) total nonperforming loans as a % of rj bank total loans 0.40 % 0.73 % 1.14 % september 30, 2012 2011 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance ($ in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ $ $ (5 ) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 19,517 (92,409 ) 25,685 (81,267 ) cre construction loans (739 ) (490 ) cre loans 8,404 (27,546 ) 15,842 (30,752 ) residential mortgage loans 78,739 (26,138 ) 91,796 (33,210 ) sbl (709 ) (20 ) total $ 106,660 $ (147,541 ) $ 133,323 $ (145,744 ) total nonperforming loans as a % of rj bank total loans 1.31 % 1.99 % the level of nonperforming loans is another indicator of potential future credit losses. the amount of nonperforming loans decreased 35% during the year ended september 30, 2015 . this decrease was due to a $14 million decrease in nonperforming residential mortgage loans and a $14 million decrease in nonperforming cre loans. included in nonperforming residential mortgage loans are $39 million in loans for which $21 million in charge-offs were previously recorded, resulting in less exposure within the remaining balance. the nonperfoming loans above excludes $15 million, $14 million, $10 million, $13 million, and $10 million as of september 30, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011 respectively, of residential troubled debt restructurings ( tdr ) which were returned to accrual status in accordance with our policy. loan underwriting policies a component of rj bank's credit risk management strategy is conservative, well-defined policies and procedures. rj bank's underwriting policies for the major types of loans are: sbl and residential mortgage loan portfolio rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio consists of first mortgage loans originated by rj bank via referrals from our pcg financial advisors and the general public as well as first mortgage loans purchased by rj bank. all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to strict underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of the borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). approximately 90% of the residential loans 88 index are fully documented loans and 98% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio is owner-occupant borrowers for their primary or second home residences, of which approximately 85% is for their primary residences. approximately 15% of the first lien residential mortgage loans are arms with interest-only payments based on a fixed rate for an initial period of the loan, typically five to seven years, then become fully amortizing, subject to annual and lifetime interest rate caps. a high percentage of our originated 15 or 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market. rj bank's sbl portfolio is comprised of loans fully collateralized by client's marketable securities and represents 11% of rj bank's total loan portfolio. the underwriting policy for rj bank's sbl primarily includes a review of collateral, including ltv, with a limited review of repayment history. while rj bank has chosen not to participate in any government-sponsored loan modification programs, its loan modification policy does take into consideration some of the programs' parameters and supports every effort to assist borrowers within the guidelines of safety and soundness. in general, rj bank considers the qualification terms outlined in the government-sponsored programs as well as the affordability test and other factors. rj bank retains flexibility to determine the appropriate modification structure and required documentation to support the borrower's current financial situation before approving a modification. short sales are also used by rj bank to mitigate credit losses. corporate loan portfolio rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is comprised of approximately 430 borrowers, the majority of which are underwritten, managed and reviewed at rj bank's corporate headquarters location, which facilitates close monitoring of the portfolio by credit risk personnel, relationship officers and senior rj bank executives. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is diversified among a number of industries in both the u.s. and canada and comprised of project finance real estate loans, commercial lines of credit and term loans, the majority of which are participations in snc or other large syndicated loans, and tax-exempt loans. rj bank is sometimes involved in the syndication of the loan at inception and some of these loans have been purchased in the secondary trading markets. as the process for evaluating the sncs or other large syndications is consistent with the process for the other c&amp;i, cre and cre construction loans in the portfolio, there is no additional credit risk with syndicated loans as compared to any other c&amp;i, cre and cre construction loan in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's tax-exempt loans are long-term loans to governmental and nonprofit entities. these loans generally have lower overall credit risk, but are subject to other risks that are not usually present with corporate clients including the risk associated with the constituency served by a local government and the risk in ensuring an obligation has appropriate tax treatment. the remainder of the corporate loan portfolio is comprised of smaller participations and direct loans. there are no subordinated loans or mezzanine financings in the corporate loan portfolio. regardless of the source, all corporate loans are independently underwritten to rj bank credit policies and are subject to loan committee approval, and credit quality is monitored on an on-going basis by rj bank's corporate lending staff. rj bank credit policies include criteria related to ltv limits based upon property type, single borrower loan limits, loan term and structure parameters (including guidance on leverage, debt service coverage ratios and debt repayment ability), industry concentration limits, secondary sources of repayment, municipality demographics, and other criteria. a large portion of rj bank's corporate loans are to borrowers in industries in which we have expertise, through coverage provided by our capital markets research analysts. more than half of rj bank's corporate borrowers are public companies. rj bank's corporate loans are generally secured by all assets of the borrower, in some instances are secured by mortgages on specific real estate, and with respect to tax-exempt loans, are generally secured by a pledge of revenue. in a limited number of transactions, loans in the portfolio are extended on an unsecured basis. in addition, all corporate loans are subject to rj bank's regulatory review. risk monitoring process another component of the credit risk strategy at rj bank is the ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all residential, sbl and corporate credit exposures. there are various other factors included in these processes, depending on the loan portfolio. sbl and residential mortgage loans we track and review many factors to monitor credit risk in rj bank's sbl and residential mortgage loan portfolios. the qualitative factors include, but are not limited to: loan performance trends, loan product parameters and qualification requirements, borrower credit scores, occupancy (i.e., owner occupied, second home or investment property), level of documentation, loan purpose, geographic concentrations, average loan size, and loan policy exceptions. these qualitative measures, while considered and reviewed in establishing the allowance for loan losses, have not resulted in any material quantitative adjustments to rj bank's historical loss rates. in addition to historical loss rates, one other quantitative factor utilized for the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio is updated ltv ratios. rj bank obtains the most recently available information (generally on a quarter lag) to estimate current ltv ratios on the individual loans in the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio. current ltv ratios are estimated based on the initial 89 index appraisal obtained at the time of origination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing price changes that have occurred since origination. the value of the homes could vary from actual market values due to change in the condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price changes within current valuation indices and other factors. the current average estimated ltv is approximately 55% for the total residential mortgage loan portfolio. residential mortgage loans with estimated ltvs in excess of 100% represent less than 2% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio. credit risk management utilizes this data in conjunction with delinquency statistics, loss experience and economic circumstances to establish appropriate allowance for loan losses for the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which is based upon an estimate for the probability of default and loss given default for each homogeneous class of loans. the marketable collateral securing rj bank's sbl is monitored on a daily basis. collateral adjustments are made by the borrower as necessary to ensure rj bank's loans are adequately secured, resulting in minimizing its credit risk. our sbl portfolio has not experienced high levels of delinquencies to date. as of both september 30, 2015 and 2014 , there were no delinquent sbl. at september 30, 2015 , loans over 30 days delinquent (including nonperforming loans) decreased to 1.69% of residential mortgage loans outstanding, compared to 2.34% over 30 days delinquent at september 30, 2014 . additionally, our september 30, 2015 percentage compares favorably to the national average for over 30 day delinquencies of 5.71% as most recently reported by the fed. rj bank's significantly lower delinquency rate as compared to its peers is the result of both our uniform underwriting policies and the lack of non-traditional loan products and subprime loans. the following table presents a summary of delinquent residential mortgage loans: delinquent residential loans (amount) delinquent residential loans as a percentage of outstanding loan balances 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) ($ in thousands) september 30, 2015 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 4,849 $ 28,036 $ 32,885 0.25 % 1.44 % 1.69 % home equity loans/lines 30 231 261 0.14 % 1.09 % 1.23 % total residential mortgage loans $ 4,879 $ 28,267 $ 33,146 0.25 % 1.44 % 1.69 % september 30, 2014 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 4,756 $ 35,803 $ 40,559 0.27 % 2.07 % 2.34 % home equity loans/lines 57 398 455 0.28 % 1.96 % 2.24 % total residential mortgage loans $ 4,813 $ 36,201 $ 41,014 0.27 % 2.06 % 2.34 % (1) comprised of loans which are two or more payments past due as well as loans in process of foreclosure. to manage and limit credit losses, we maintain a rigorous process to manage our loan delinquencies. with all whole loans purchased generally on a servicing-retained basis and all originated first mortgages serviced by a third party, the primary collection effort resides with the servicer. rj bank personnel direct and actively monitor the servicers' efforts through extensive communications regarding individual loan status changes and requirements of timely and appropriate collection or property management actions and reporting, including management of third parties used in the collection process (appraisers, attorneys, etc.). additionally, every residential mortgage loan over 60 days past due is reviewed by rj bank personnel monthly and documented in a written report detailing delinquency information, balances, collection status, appraised value, and other data points. rj bank senior management meets monthly to discuss the status, collection strategy and charge-off/write-down recommendations on every residential mortgage loan over 60 days past due. updated collateral valuations are obtained for loans over 90 days past due and charge-offs are taken on individual loans based on these valuations. 90 index credit risk is also managed by diversifying the residential mortgage loan portfolio. the geographic concentrations (top five states) of rj bank's one-to-four family residential mortgage loans are as follows: september 30, 2015 september 30, 2014 (1) ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total residential mortgage loans) 20.5 % fl 22.5 % fl 19.6 % ca (2) 15.7 % ca (2) 5.9 % ny 6.9 % ny 5.8 % tx 5.2 % nj 4.2 % nj 4.7 % tx (1) in the prior year, the loan concentrations were presented as a percentage of rj bank total assets. in order to enhance comparability with the current year, the percentage concentrations have been revised from those presented in the prior year to reflect the percentage of total residential mortgage loans outstanding at such time. (2) the concentration ratio for the state of california excludes 4.7% for september 30, 2015 and 6.2% for september 30, 2014 , for loans purchased from a large investment grade institution that have full repurchase recourse for any delinquent loans. loans where borrowers may be subject to payment increases include adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms that initially require payment of interest only. payments may increase significantly when the interest-only period ends and the loan principal begins to amortize. at september 30, 2015 and 2014 , these loans totaled $264 million and $307 million, respectively, or approximately 15% and 20% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio, respectively. at september 30, 2015 , the balance of amortizing, former interest-only, loans totaled $302 million. the weighted average number of years before the remainder of the loans, which were still in their interest-only period at september 30, 2015 , begins amortizing is 2.8 years. the outstanding balance of interest-only loans that based on their contractual terms are scheduled to reprice, are as follows: september 30, 2015 (in thousands) one year or less $ 130,807 over one year through two years 5,407 over two years through three years 16,136 over three years through four years 20,267 over four years through five years 42,807 over five years 48,223 total outstanding residential interest-only loan balance $ 263,647 a component of credit risk management for the residential portfolio is the ltv and borrower credit score at origination or purchase. the most recent ltv/fico scores at origination of rj bank's residential first mortgage loan portfolio are as follows: september 30, 2015 september 30, 2014 residential first mortgage loan weighted-average ltv/fico 66%/757 66%/754 corporate loans credit risk in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is monitored on an individual loan basis for trends in borrower operating performance, payment history, credit ratings, collateral performance, loan covenant compliance, annual snc exam results, municipality demographics, and other factors including industry performance and concentrations. as part of the credit review process the loan grade is reviewed at least quarterly to confirm the appropriate risk rating for each credit. the individual loan ratings resulting from the snc exam are incorporated in rj bank's internal loan ratings when the ratings are received and if the snc rating is lower on an individual loan than rj bank's internal rating, the loan is downgraded. while rj bank considers historical snc exam results in its loan ratings methodology, differences between the snc exam and internal ratings on individual loans typically arise due to subjectivity of the loan classification process. these differences may result in additional provision for loan losses in periods when snc exam results are received. see note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, specifically the bank loans and allowances for losses section, for additional information on rj bank's allowance for loan loss policies. see the credit risk section in item 7a of this report for additional information on rj bank's corporate loan portfolio, including the impact of the most recent snc exam on the current year's provision for loan losses. at september 30, 2015 , other than loans classified as nonperforming, there was one government-guaranteed loan totaling $200 thousand that was delinquent greater than 30 days. 91 index credit risk is also managed by diversifying the corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio does not contain a significant concentration in any single industry. the industry concentrations (top five categories) of rj bank's corporate loans are as follows: september 30, 2015 september 30, 2014 (1) ($ outstanding as a % of rj bank total corporate loans) 5.8 % retail real estate 5.9 % pharmaceuticals 5.7 % pharmaceuticals 5.5 % office 5.5 % consumer products and services 4.8 % automotive/transportation 5.4 % hospitality 4.8 % retail real estate 4.5 % automotive/transportation 4.6 % hospitality (1) in the prior year, the loan concentrations were presented as a percentage of rj bank total assets. in order to enhance comparability with the current year, the percentage concentrations have been revised from those presented in the prior year to reflect the percentage of total corporate loans outstanding at such time. liquidity risk see the section entitled liquidity and capital resources in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this report for more information regarding our liquidity and how we manage liquidity risk. operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in our technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in our control processes including cyber security incidents (see the section entitled our businesses depend on technology in item 1a, risk factors in this report for a discussion of certain cyber security risks). we operate different businesses in diverse markets and are reliant on the ability of our employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes and complexity. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, we could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, we have developed and continue to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance, risk management and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that our various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. we have established an operational risk management committee, which is chaired by our chief operating officer and is comprised of senior managers, to review and address operational risks across our businesses. the committee establishes risk appetite levels for major operational risks, monitors operating unit performance for adherence to defined risk tolerances, and establishes policies for risk management at the enterprise level. regulatory and legal risk we have comprehensive procedures addressing regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of client funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money laundering and record keeping. we have designated anti-money laundering officers in each of our subsidiaries who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the bank secrecy act and the usa patriot act. we act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, we have financial and legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives reviews proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material client or customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose 92 index of identifying issues that present risk exposure to either us or our customers. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout our operations. a quality of markets committee meets regularly to monitor the best execution activities of our trading departments as they relate to customer orders. this committee is comprised of representatives from the otc trading, listed trading, options, municipal trading, taxable trading, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of one of our senior officers. this committee reviews reports from the respective departments listed above and recommends action for improvement when necessary. our major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. our banking activities are highly regulated and subject to impact from changes in banking laws and regulations, including unanticipated rulings. present economic conditions have led to rapid introduction of significant regulatory programs or changes affecting consumer protection and disclosure requirements, financial reporting, and regulatory restructuring. regulatory requirements including recent changes to consumer and mortgage lending regulations, as well as new regulatory or government programs, are closely monitored and acted upon to ensure a timely response. see further discussion of our risks associated with new regulations, including the dodd-frank act, in item 1a, risk factors within this report. the nature of the periodic examinations of our operations by our various regulators, applicable to not only our banking activities but also to our broker-dealer operational activities, have been active, expanding in some respects as it pertains to the scope of their annual reviews, and reflective of a heightened level of scrutiny of the operations and activities of financial services entities. we continue to incur costs to support these reviews, and evaluate and implement changes in our processes and procedures to improve and continue to comply with all of the various regulations to which we are subject. given this environment, we cannot predict the impact that the ultimate outcome resulting from the periodic examinations by one or more of our regulators could have on our future costs or results of operations. legal risk includes the risk of pcg client claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments, exposure to pre-closing date litigation matters of morgan keegan should regions fail to honor its indemnification obligations (see item 3 legal proceedings in this report and note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further discussion of the regions indemnification for such matters) and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct business. regulatory oversight of the financial services industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and we, as well as others in the industry, have been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. we have a number of outstanding claims resulting from, among other reasons, market conditions. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, we do, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion of our accounting policy regarding such matters in the loss provisions arising from legal proceedings section of critical accounting estimates contained within item 7, management's discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report and in note 2 of our notes to consolidated financial statements within this form 10-k. 93 indexrisk factors 16 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. the list of risk factors provided below is not exhaustive; there may be factors not discussed below or in this form 10-k that adversely impact our results of operations, harm our reputation or inhibit our ability to generate new business prospects. risks related to our business and industry damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, customers, investors and associates. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues may include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, including appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity and privacy, record-keeping, and sales and trading practices, the failure to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. failure to maintain appropriate service and quality standards, or a failure or perceived failure to treat customers and clients fairly, can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and reputational harm. further, negative publicity about us, whether or not true, may also harm our future business prospects. we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including economic output levels, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, prices of commodities including oil and gas, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. for example, fed policies determine, in large part, the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies also can decrease materially the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. macroeconomic conditions also may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. 16 index at times over the last several years we have experienced operating cycles during weak and uncertain u.s. and global economic conditions, including low economic output levels, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, relatively high unemployment rates, and significant uncertainty with respect to domestic and international fiscal and monetary policy. these conditions led to changes in the global financial markets that from time to time negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability. while global financial markets have shown signs of improvement, uncertainty remains. a period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, prolonged continuation of the artificially low level of short-term interest rates, a return to increased credit market dislocations, reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors could significantly impair our revenues and profitability. we could experience a decline in commission revenue from lower trading volumes, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from capital markets and advisory transactions due to reduced activity, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers' and market participants' failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. periods of reduced revenue and other losses could be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses, including, but not limited to, our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and, our ability to reduce them over short time periods is limited. u.s. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in the middle east and in eastern europe and russia. concerns about the european union ( eu ), including britain's june 23, 2016 referendum to exit the eu ( brexit ), and the stability of the eu's sovereign debt, has caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the eu's financial support programs. it is possible that other eu member states may experience financial troubles in the future, or may choose to follow britain's lead and leave the eu. any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. u.s. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures caused by the ongoing less than optimal economic environment and ongoing concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality. if these trends continue or worsen, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and, in turn, reduce investment banking revenues. in addition, such factors could adversely affect the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio. rj bank is particularly affected by economic conditions in north america. market conditions in the united states and canada can be assessed through the following metrics: the level and volatility of interest rates; the unemployment and under-employment rates; real estate prices; consumer confidence levels and changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. deterioration of market conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. we must maintain appropriate liquidity levels. our inability to maintain adequate liquidity and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, sell assets at unfavorable prices, and cut or eliminate dividend payments. our liquidity could be negatively affected by the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, regulatory changes to the liquidity or capital requirements applicable to our subsidiaries that may prevent us from upstreaming cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets for rjf, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. the occ, the fed, the fdic, and the sec (through finra) have the authority, and under certain circumstances, the duty, to prohibit or to limit dividend payments by regulated subsidiaries to their parent. the availability of financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on various factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector, and our credit ratings. our cost of capital and the availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease to provide, funding to borrowers as a result of future concerns over the strength of specific counterparties, as well as the stability of markets generally. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. 17 index a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and financial condition. if our credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our client relationships. such a change in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. we may not be able to obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions (see note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for such information). a credit rating downgrade would also result in rjf incurring a higher commitment fee on any unused balance on its $300 million revolving credit facility executed on august 6, 2015, in addition to triggering a higher interest rate applicable to any borrowings outstanding on the line as of and subsequent to such downgrade (see note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for information on this revolving credit facility). we are exposed to market risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, interest rate changes could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. interest rate changes could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely, in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives, and venture capital and private equity investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, relative exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity. our venture capital and private equity investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their performance obligations due to numerous causes, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failure, among others. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers' market making and underwriting businesses, which exposes us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold 18 index certain securities, loans and derivatives in our trading accounts. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses. we borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and/or resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits, as well as by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to widespread concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals through the offering of: c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and other loans collateralized by securities. we incur credit risk through our investments. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, or geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, acts of terrorism, severe weather events or other adverse economic events, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our available for sale securities portfolio. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. our policies also can adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans or satisfy their obligations to us. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. as a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us 19 index cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. losses arising in connection with counterparty defaults may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts by our asset management subsidiaries, and advisory fees. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition, renegotiation of contracts and the introduction of new, lower-priced investment products and services. changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management ( aum ). aum balances are impacted by net inflow/outflow of client assets and market values. below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impact our business and financial condition. if we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline. in addition, in periods of declining market values, our asset values under management may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues. our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities which we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings in which we are involved. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, despite risk mitigation policies, we may incur losses as a result of positions we hold in connection with our market making or underwriting activities. from time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results. we have made and, to the limited extent permitted by applicable regulations, may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments. we may be unable to realize our investment objectives if we cannot sell or otherwise dispose of our interests at attractive prices or complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments. even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. we continue to experience pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. we continue to experience pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we experience pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), and location and reputation in relevant markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the 20 index financial services industry, which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms and hedge funds, among others. this competition could cause our business to suffer. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. the inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, we may incur substantial expenditures to keep pace with the constant changes and enhancements being made in technology, including improvements made to internet connectivity, networking and telecommunications systems. our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business. our ability to develop and retain our clients depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our senior professionals, particularly our managing directors, and the members of our executive committees, as well as employees and financial advisors. to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. turnover in the financial services industry is high. the cost of retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. financial industry employers are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as in a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. to the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees, which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are not within our target range. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. if we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. if we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may work for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who work for our competitors from joining us. business growth could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks. integrating acquired businesses, including for example, the september 6, 2016 acquisition of the u.s. private client services unit of deutsche bank wealth management ( alex. brown ) and the august 31, 2016 acquisition of macdougall, macdougall &amp; mactier, inc. ( 3macs ), as well as providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. we may incur significant expense in connection with expanding our existing businesses, recruiting financial advisors, or making strategic acquisitions or investments. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues derived from such investments or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves hiring additional personnel to address these procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate or not adhered to with respect to our expanded business or any new business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. 21 index moreover, to the extent we pursue acquisitions we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. we may be unable to integrate any acquired business into our existing business successfully. difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise capital or borrow in order to finance an acquisition, which could result in dilution or increased leverage. we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or perhaps at all. a continued interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or the failure to effectively update the technology we utilize, could be materially adverse to our business. our businesses rely extensively on data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to: (i) successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our technology systems; (ii) address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands; and (iii) retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our technology systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other applicable laws and regulatory sanctions. see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks. security breaches of our technology systems, or those of our clients or other third-party vendors we rely on, could subject us to significant liability and harm our reputation. the expectations of sound operational and informational security practices have risen among our clients and vendors, the public at large and regulators. our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, cyber-attacks and breakdowns. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. although cyber security incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have an impact on the security and stability of our operations. notwithstanding the precautions we take, if one or more of these events were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, including that of our clients and counterparties, which is processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our clients and counterparties. we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications. we may also be subject to litigation and financial losses that are neither insured nor covered under any of our current insurance policies. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. in providing services to clients, we may manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. as a result, we may be subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as u.s. federal and state laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information and international laws. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. if any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. in addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue. potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant. depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. 22 index see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks. associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. there have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by associates in the financial services industry. there is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. for example, our banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. if our associates were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. we are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. in addition, our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management. the violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely affect our clients and us. it is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective. if our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. certain of our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted out of our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee locations and our information systems processing to be conducted out of our information technology data center in the denver, colorado area, our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. refer to the we are exposed to credit risk risk factor in this item 1a for a discussion of how events, including weather events, could adversely impact rj bank's loan portfolio. refer to the a continued interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or the failure to effectively update the technology we utilize, could be materially adverse to our business risk factor in this item 1a for a discussion of how events beyond our control, including weather-related events, could impact our ability to conduct business. regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters. under the definitive stock purchase agreement entered into in connection with our acquisition of morgan keegan &amp; company, inc., and mk holding, inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively referred to as morgan keegan ) from regions financial corporation ( regions ), regions has obligations to continue to indemnify rjf with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters. specifically, the terms of the agreement provide that regions will indemnify rjf for losses incurred in connection with legal proceedings pending as of the closing date of that acquisition (april 2, 2012), or commenced thereafter and related to pre-closing matters that were received prior to the closing date, as well as any cost of defense pertaining thereto. rjf is relying on regions to continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations under the spa with respect to such matters. our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions in the future, or our failure to recover future losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement, and any adverse judgments, and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels. see note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding the indemnification from regions. we are exposed to litigation risks, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and prospects. many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our associates could result in substantial liability. our private client group business segment has historically been more susceptible to litigation than our institutional businesses. in highly volatile markets, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities laws or other laws for: alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions; issues related 23 index to the suitability of our investment recommendations; the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions; contractual issues; employment claims; and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial impact or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and future business prospects. in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see item 3, legal proceedings in this report for a discussion of our legal matters and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report for a discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in the real estate and credit markets may increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, one outcome could be that the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-critical accounting estimates, in this report for additional information on the nature of these estimates. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available for sale securities including auction rate securities ( ars ), certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means, which ultimately rely to some degree on our subjective judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective and, consequently, based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment, as well as declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) and the sec have at times revised the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting estimates discussion within item 7 in this report, and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. in june 2016, the fasb issued a new standard on accounting for credit losses. the new standard will replace multiple existing impairment models, including the replacement of the incurred loss model for loans with an expected loss model. we are evaluating the potential impact its adoption, which will occur no later than the quarter ended december 31, 2020, will have on our financial position and results of operations. our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be effective. our banking and trading processes seek to balance our ability to profit from banking and trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we use limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and 24 index the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate unforeseen economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. our risk management methods may not predict future risk exposures effectively. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate. a failure to manage our growth adequately, or to manage our risk effectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. financial services firms are subject to numerous actual or perceived conflicts of interest, which are under growing scrutiny by u.s. federal and state regulators. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities. a perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest adequately could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause result in material harm to our business and financial condition. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report. we are exposed to risk from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world, including a few developing regions commonly known as emerging markets, and as a result, are exposed to risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, less established regulatory regimes, changes in governmental or central bank policies, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative, economic and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from trading non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the abovementioned factors. the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified because non-u.s. trading markets, particularly those in emerging markets, are generally smaller and less developed, less liquid and more volatile than u.s. trading markets. we have risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including most significantly property and casualty, workers' compensation, errors and omissions liability, general liability and the portion of employee-related health care benefits plans we fund. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage appropriate to our risk assessment, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. risks related to our regulatory environment financial services firms have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. financial services firms have been operating in an onerous regulatory environment, which will become even more stringent in light of recent well-publicized failures of regulators to detect and prevent fraud. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from various regulators, including the sec, the fed, the occ and the cfpb, in addition to stock exchanges, finra and state attorneys general. penalties and fines imposed by regulatory authorities have increased substantially in recent years. we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many different aspects of financial services, including, but not limited to, the authority to fine us and to grant, cancel, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on the right to continue operating particular businesses or engage in certain activities. substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action taken against us could harm our business prospects through adverse financial effects and reputational harm. 25 index changes in regulations resulting from the dodd-frank act, the dol rules, including the new fiduciary standard, or any new regulations or laws may adversely affect our businesses. market and economic conditions over the past several years have directly led to a demand by the public for changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated, including a call for more stringent legislation and regulation in the united states and abroad. the dodd-frank act enacted sweeping changes and an unprecedented increase in the supervision and regulation of the financial services industry (see item 1, regulation, in this report for a discussion of such changes). the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations will have on us, the financial industry and the economy at large cannot be quantified until all of the implementing regulations called for under the legislation have been finalized and fully implemented. nevertheless, it is apparent that these legislative and regulatory changes could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of our assets, require us to alter at least some of our business practices, impose additional compliance costs, and otherwise adversely affect our businesses. the dodd-frank act impacts the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and operations, and interact with regulators, all of which could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that have (or may) impact our businesses include: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers; regulatory oversight of incentive compensation; the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies; restrictions on proprietary trading; and, to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading. there is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain consolidated asset thresholds established under the dodd-frank act, which have the effect of imposing enhanced standards and requirements on larger institutions. these include, but are not limited to, rj bank's oversight by the cfpb. the cfpb has had an active enforcement agenda and any action taken by the cfpb could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make such products and services less attractive, impose additional compliance measures, or result in fines, penalties or required remediation. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. we were required to comply with the volcker rule's provisions beginning on july 21, 2015. although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of proprietary trading, due to our underwriting and market making activities, the volcker rule will likely adversely affect our results of operations through increased operational and compliance costs, possible reductions in our trading revenues, and changes to our private equity investments. we are evaluating the impact of the dol rule on our business. however, because qualified accounts, particularly ira accounts, comprise a significant portion of our business, we expect that implementation of the dol rule will negatively impact our results including the impact of increased costs related to compliance, legal and information technology. in addition, we expect that our legal risks will increase, in part, as a result of the new contractual rights required to be given to ira and non-erisa plan clients under the bic exemption and principal transactions exemption. the basel iii regulatory capital standards impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our competitiveness and profitability. in july 2013, the fed, the occ and the fdic released final u.s. basel iii rules, which implemented the global regulatory capital reforms of basel iii and certain changes required by the dodd-frank act. the u.s. basel iii rules increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establish a capital conservation buffer and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. we became subject to the requirements under the final u.s. basel iii rules as of january 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for several of its provisions, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. the increased capital requirements stipulated under the u.s. basel iii rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. we continue to evaluate the impact of the u.s. basel iii rules on both rj bank and rjf. failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to rjf, rj bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business. rjf and rj bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by various federal regulators in the united states, and, accordingly, must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. the capital amounts and classification for both rjf and rj bank are also subject to qualitative judgments by u. s. federal regulators based on components of our capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. quantitative measures established by 26 index regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rjf and rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted assets, tier 1 capital to average assets and capital conservation buffers (as defined in the regulations). failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory (and potentially additional discretionary) actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either rjf or rj bank's operations and financial condition. as more fully discussed in item 1, regulation, in this report, rjf is required to perform annual stress tests using certain scenarios provided by the fed. while we believe that both the quality and magnitude of our capital base is sufficient to support our current operations given our risk profile, the results of the stress testing process may affect our approach to managing and deploying capital. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and finra's net capital rule, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital that a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below certain thresholds. in addition, our canada-based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction by iiroc. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds that rjf needs to make payments on any such obligations. see note 25 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. as a financial holding company, rjf's liquidity depends on payments from its subsidiaries, which may be subject to regulatory restrictions. rjf is a financial holding company and therefore depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations, including debt service. rjf's subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to prevent or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to rjf. rjf's broker-dealers and bank subsidiary are limited in their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and are subject to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as limitations on their ability to use funds deposited with them in broker or bank accounts to fund their businesses. these requirements may hinder rjf's ability to access funds from its subsidiaries. rjf may also become subject to a prohibition or limitations on its ability to pay dividends or repurchase its common stock. the federal banking regulators, including the occ, the fed and the fdic, as well as the sec (through finra) have the authority and under certain circumstances, the obligation, to limit or prohibit dividend payments and stock repurchases by the banking organizations they supervise, including rjf and its bank subsidiaries. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we operate in a highly regulated industry in which future developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. the securities industry is subject to extensive and constantly changing regulation. broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including, but not limited to: sales and trading methods; trade practices among broker-dealers; use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities; capital structure of securities firms; anti-money laundering efforts; recordkeeping; and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. any violation of these laws or regulations could subject us to the following events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects: civil and criminal liability; sanctions, which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers; the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors; censures; fines; or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. as a financial holding company, we are regulated by the fed. rj bank is regulated by the occ, the fed, the cfpb, and the fdic. this oversight includes, but is not limited to, scrutiny with respect to affiliate transactions and compliance with consumer regulations. the economic and political environment over the past several years has resulted in increased focus on the regulation of the financial services industry, including many proposals for new rules. any new rules issued by u.s. regulators that oversee the financial services industry could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we also may be adversely affected as a result of changes to federal, state or foreign tax laws, or by changes to the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. 27 index regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. there is no assurance that regulators will be satisfied with the policies and procedures implemented by rjf and its subsidiaries. in addition, from time to time, rjf and its affiliates may become subject to additional findings with respect to compliance or other regulatory deficiencies, which could subject us to additional liability, including penalties. see item 1, regulation, in this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7a, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. numerous regulatory changes, and enhanced regulatory and enforcement activity, relating to the asset management business may increase our compliance and legal costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the 1940 act with respect to how mutual funds pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their share . the staff of the sec's office of compliance, inspections and examinations has indicated that it is reviewing the use of fund assets to pay for fees to sub-transfer agents and sub-administrators for services that may be deemed to be distribution-related. any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, their impact cannot be fully ascertained at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries, which have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers. as some of our wholly owned subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the sec, increased regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in augmented operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. it is not possible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. conformance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. for example, pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors. it is not clear whether the sec will determine that a heightened standard of conduct is appropriate for broker-dealers; however, any such standard, if mandated, would likely require us to review our product and service offerings and implement certain changes, as well as require that we incur additional regulatory costs in order to ensure compliance. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have recently taken regulatory actions impacting the investment management industry, and may continue to take further actions, including expanding current (or enacting new) standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. for example, several states and municipalities in the united states have adopted pay-to-play rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees. such pay-to-play rules could affect the profitability of that portion of our business. additionally, the use of soft dollars, where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may be limited or modified in the future. a substantial portion of the research relied on by our investment management business in the investment decision making process is generated internally by our investment analysts and external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars. this external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services. if the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these additional costs. furthermore, new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products may impact our investment management business and result in increased costs. for example, many regulators around the world adopted disclosure and reporting requirements relating to the hedge fund business or other businesses, and changes to the laws, rules and regulations in the united states related to the over-the-counter swaps and derivatives markets require additional registration, recordkeeping and reporting obligations. rj bank is subject to the community reinvestment act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties. the cra, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair housing act and other u.s. federal fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. the u.s. department of justice and other federal agencies, including the cfpb, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. a successful challenge to an institution's performance under the cra or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil monetary penalties, injunctive relief, and the imposition of restrictions on mergers, acquisitions and expansion 28 index activity. private parties may also have the ability to challenge a financial institution's performance under fair lending laws by bringing private class action litigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 83 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management risks are an inherent part of our business and activities. management of these risks is critical to our fiscal soundness and profitability. our risk management processes are multi-faceted and require communication, judgment and knowledge of financial products and markets. we have a formal enterprise risk management ( erm ) program to assess and review aggregate risks across the firm. our management takes an active role in the erm process which requires specific administrative and business functions to participate in the identification, assessment, monitoring and control of various risks. the results of this process are extensively documented and reported to executive management and the rjf audit and risk committee of the board of directors. the principal risks involved in our business activities are market, credit, liquidity, operational, and regulatory and legal. market risk market risk is our risk of loss resulting from changes in market prices of our inventory, hedge, interest-rate derivative and investment positions. we have exposure to market risk primarily through our broker-dealer trading operations and, to a lesser extent, through our banking operations. our broker-dealer subsidiaries, primarily rj&amp;a, trade taxable and tax-exempt debt obligations and act as an active market maker in over-the-counter equity securities. in connection with these activities, we maintain inventories in order to ensure availability of securities and to facilitate client transactions. rj bank holds investments in mbs, residential mortgage-backed securities, cmos and equity securities within its available for sale securities portfolio, and also from time-to-time may hold sba loan securitizations not yet transferred. additionally, we hold certain ars in a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf. see notes 2 , 5 , 6 and 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for fair value and other information regarding our trading inventories and available for sale securities. changes in value of our trading inventory may result from fluctuations in interest rates, obligor creditworthiness equity prices, macroeconomic factors, risk aversion, investor expectations, asset liquidity, and dynamic relationships among these factors. we manage our trading inventory by product type and have established trading divisions with responsibility for particular product types. our primary method of controlling risk in our trading inventory is through the establishment and monitoring of risk-based limits and limits on the dollar amount of securities positions held overnight in inventory. a hierarchy of limits exists at levels including firm, division, asset type (organized as trading desks, e.g., for otc equities, corporate bonds, municipal bonds) asset sub-type (e.g. below-investment grade positions), and individual trader. position limits in trading inventory accounts are monitored 83 index on a daily basis. consolidated position and exposure reports are prepared and distributed daily to senior management. trading positions are carefully monitored for potential limit violations. management likewise monitors inventory levels and trading results, as well as inventory aging, pricing, concentration and securities ratings. for our derivatives positions, which are composed primarily of interest rate swaps but include futures contracts and forward foreign exchange contracts, we monitor daily their exposure in our derivatives subsidiary against established limits with respect to a number of factors, including interest rate, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, spread, ratio, basis, and volatility risk. these derivative exposures are monitored both on a total portfolio basis and separately for each agreement for selected maturity periods. in the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. rj&amp;a and rj ltd., as a lead, co-lead or syndicate member in the underwriting deal, may be subject to market risk on any unsold shares issued in the offering to which we are committed. risk exposure is controlled by limiting participation, the deal size or through the syndication process. interest rate risk trading activities we are exposed to interest rate risk as a result of our trading inventories (primarily comprised of fixed income instruments) in our capital markets segment, as well as our rj bank operations. we actively manage the interest rate risk arising from our fixed income trading securities through the use of hedging techniques that involve u.s. treasury securities and futures contracts, liquid spread products, and swaps. we monitor daily, the value-at-risk ( var ) for all of our trading portfolios. var is an appropriate statistical technique for estimating potential losses in trading portfolios due to typical adverse market movements over a specified time horizon with a suitable confidence level. we apply the fed's market risk rule ( mrr ) for the purpose of calculating our capital ratios. the mrr, also known as the risk-based capital guidelines: market risk rule released by the fed, occ and fdic, requires us to calculate var numbers for all of our trading portfolios, including fixed income, equity, foreign exchange, and derivative instruments. to calculate var, we use historical simulation. this approach assumes that historical changes in market conditions, such as in interest rates and equity prices, are representative of future changes. the simulation is based on daily market data for the previous twelve months. var is reported at a 99% confidence level for a one-day time horizon. assuming that future market conditions change as they have in the past twelve months, we would expect to incur losses greater than those predicted by our one-day var estimates about once every 100 trading days, or about three times per year on average. for regulatory capital calculation purposes, we also report var numbers for a ten-day time horizon. the fed's mrr requires us to perform daily back testing procedures of our var model, whereby we compare each day's projected var to its regulatory-defined daily trading losses, which excludes fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income, and intraday trading. based on these daily ex ante versus ex post comparisons, we verify that the number of times that regulatory-defined daily trading losses exceed var is consistent with our expectations at a 99% confidence level. during the twelve months ended september 30, 2016, our regulatory-defined daily loss in our trading portfolios exceeded our predicted var once. the following table sets forth the high, low, and daily average var for all of our trading portfolios, including fixed income, equity, and derivative instruments, as of the period and dates indicated: year ended september 30, 2016 var at september 30, high low daily average 2016 2015 (in thousands) daily var $ 2,735 $ 619 $ 1,584 $ 1,804 $ 1,173 the modeling of the risk characteristics of trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. while management believes that its assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no uniform industry methodology for estimating var, and different assumptions or approximations could produce materially different var estimates. as a result, var statistics are more reliable when used as indicators of risk levels and trends within a firm than as a basis for inferring differences in risk-taking across firms. 84 index separately, rjf provides additional market risk disclosures to comply with the mrr. the results of the application of this market risk capital rule are available on our website under more... - investors - financial reports - market risk rule disclosure within 45 days after the end of each of our reporting periods (the information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report). should markets suddenly become more volatile, actual trading losses may exceed var results presented on a single day and might accumulate over a longer time horizon, such as a number of consecutive trading days. accordingly, management applies additional controls including position limits, a daily review of trading results, review of the status of aged inventory, independent controls on pricing, monitoring of concentration risk, and review of issuer ratings, as well as stress testing. we utilize stress testing to complement our var analysis so as to measure risk under historical and hypothetical adverse scenarios. during volatile markets we may choose to pare our trading inventories to reduce risk. as a part of our fixed income public finance operations, rj&amp;a enters into forward commitments to purchase gnma or fnma mbs which are issued on behalf of various state and local hfas (see further description of these activities in the item 1 business, capital markets section in this report). these activities result in exposure to interest rate risk. in order to hedge the interest rate risk to which rj&amp;a would otherwise be exposed between the date of the commitment and the date of sale of the mbs, rj&amp;a enters into to be announced ( tba ) security contracts with investors for generic mbs securities at specific rates and prices to be delivered on settlement dates in the future. see notes 2 and 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information regarding these activities and the related balances outstanding as of september 30, 2016 . banking operations rj bank maintains an earning asset portfolio that is comprised of c&amp;i loans, tax-exempt loans, sbl, and commercial and residential real estate loans, as well as mbs and cmo's (both of which are held in the available for sale securities portfolio), sba loan securitizations and a trading portfolio of corporate loans. those earning assets are primarily funded by rj bank's obligations to customers (i.e. customer deposits). based on its current earning asset portfolio, rj bank is subject to interest rate risk. the current economic environment has led to an extended period of low market interest rates. as a result, the majority of rj bank's adjustable rate assets and liabilities have experienced a reduction in interest rate yields and costs that reflect these very low market interest rates. during the year, rj bank has focused its interest rate risk analysis on the risk of market interest rates rising. rj bank analyzes interest rate risk based on forecasted net interest income, which is the net amount of interest received and interest paid, and the net portfolio valuation, both in a range of interest rate scenarios. one of the objectives of rj bank's asset liability management committee is to manage the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in market interest rates. this committee uses several measures to monitor and limit rj bank's interest rate risk including scenario analysis and economic value of equity ( eve ). simulation models and estimation techniques are used to assess the sensitivity of the net interest income stream to movements in interest rates. assumptions about consumer behavior play an important role in these calculations; this is particularly relevant for loans such as mortgages where the client has the right, but not the obligation, to repay before the scheduled maturity. to ensure that rj bank is within its limits established for net interest income, a sensitivity analysis of net interest income to interest rate conditions is estimated for a variety of scenarios. rj bank utilizes an internally developed asset/liability model using standard industry software to analyze the available data. the model estimates changes in net interest income by calculating interest income and interest expense from existing assets and liabilities using current repricing, prepayment, and volume assumptions. various interest rate scenarios are modeled in order to determine the effect those scenarios may have on net interest income. in february 2015, we implemented a hedging strategy using interest rate swaps as a result of rj bank's asset and liability management process described above. for further information regarding this risk management objective, see the discussion of the rj bank interest hedges in the derivative contracts section of note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, and additional information in note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. 85 index the following table is an analysis of rj bank's estimated net interest income over a 12 month period based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own asset/liability model: instantaneous changes in rate net interest income projected change in net interest income ($ in thousands) +300 $570,203 1.72% +200 $575,174 2.61% +100 $579,272 3.34% 0 $560,561 -50 $507,221 (9.52)% refer to the net interest section of md&amp;a, in item 7 of this report, for a discussion and estimate of the potential favorable impact on rjf's pre-tax income that could result from an increase in short-term interest rates applicable to rjf's entire operations. the eve analysis is a point in time analysis of current interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, which incorporates all cash flows over their estimated remaining lives, discounted at current rates. the eve approach is based on a static balance sheet and provides an indicator of future earnings and capital levels as the changes in eve indicate the anticipated change in the value of future cash flows. rj bank monitors sensitivity to changes in eve utilizing board approved limits. these limits set a risk tolerance to changing interest rates and assist rj bank in determining strategies for mitigating this risk as it approaches these limits. the following table presents an analysis of rj bank's estimated eve sensitivity based on instantaneous shifts in interest rates (expressed in basis points) using rj bank's own asset/liability model: instantaneous changes in rate projected change in eve +300 (12.65)% +200 (7.75)% +100 (1.62)% 0 -50 (9.94)% the following table shows the contractual maturities of rj bank's loan portfolio at september 30, 2016 , including contractual principal repayments. this table does not, however, include any estimates of prepayments. these prepayments could shorten the average loan lives and cause the actual timing of the loan repayments to differ significantly from those shown in the following table: due in one year or less &gt;one year five years &gt; 5 years total (1) (in thousands) loans held for sale $ $ $ 202,967 $ 202,967 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 188,267 4,742,258 2,539,848 7,470,373 cre construction loans 22,914 70,247 29,557 122,718 cre loans 273,463 1,735,356 545,252 2,554,071 tax-exempt loans 5,250 735,694 740,944 residential mortgage loans 1,600 5,735 2,434,234 2,441,569 sbl 1,899,825 5,002 1,904,827 total loans held for investment 2,386,069 6,563,848 6,284,585 15,234,502 total loans $ 2,386,069 $ 6,563,848 $ 6,487,552 $ 15,437,469 (1) excludes any net unearned income and deferred expenses. 86 index the following table shows the distribution of the recorded investment of those rj bank loans that mature in more than one year between fixed and adjustable interest rate loans at september 30, 2016 : interest rate type fixed adjustable total (1) (in thousands) loans held for sale $ 3,614 $ 199,353 $ 202,967 loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans 3,200 7,278,906 (2) 7,282,106 cre construction loans 99,804 (2) 99,804 cre loans 43,356 2,237,252 (2) 2,280,608 tax-exempt loans 740,944 740,944 residential mortgage loans 212,186 2,227,783 (2) (3) 2,439,969 sbl 5,002 5,002 total loans held for investment 1,004,688 11,843,745 12,848,433 total loans $ 1,008,302 $ 12,043,098 $ 13,051,400 (1) excludes any net unearned income and deferred expenses. (2) related contractual loan terms may include an interest rate floor and/or fixed interest rates for a certain period of time, which would impact the timing of the interest rate reset for the respective loan. (3) see the discussion within the risk monitoring process section of item 7a in this report for additional information regarding rj bank's interest-only loan portfolio and related repricing schedule. other within our available for sale securities portfolio, we hold ars, which are long-term variable rate securities tied to short-term interest rates. as short-term interest rates rise, due to the variable nature of the penalty interest rate provisions embedded in most of these securities in the event auctions fail to set the security's interest rate, then a penalty rate that is specified in the security increases. these penalty rates are based upon a stated interest rate spread over what is typically a short-term base interest rate index. these securities are carried on our consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value, changes in interest rates impact the fair value (see notes 2 and 5 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for additional information on the fair value of these securities. management estimates that at some level of increase in short-term interest rates, issuers of the securities will have the economic incentive to refinance (and thus prepay) the securities. the faster and steeper short-term interest rates rise, the earlier prepayments will likely occur and the higher the fair value of the security. equity price risk we are exposed to equity price risk as a consequence of making markets in equity securities. rj&amp;a's broker-dealer activities are primarily client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while earning a trading profit to compensate for the risk associated with carrying inventory. we attempt to reduce the risk of loss inherent in our inventory of equity securities by monitoring those security positions constantly throughout each day and establishing position limits. in addition, rjf's private equity investments may be impacted by equity prices. foreign exchange risk we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to our investments in foreign subsidiaries as well as transactions denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar. rj bank has an investment in a canadian subsidiary, resulting in foreign exchange risk. to mitigate this risk, rj bank utilizes short-term, forward foreign exchange contracts. these derivative agreements are primarily accounted for as net investment hedges in the consolidated financial statements. see notes 2 and 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding these derivative contracts. we have foreign exchange risk in our investment in rj ltd., of approximately cdn $325 million at september 30, 2016 , which is not hedged. foreign exchange gains/losses related to this investment are primarily reflected in other comprehensive 87 index income (loss) ( oci ) on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, see note 22 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding all of our components of oci. we also have foreign exchange risk associated with our investments in subsidiaries located in the united kingdom, france, germany, and south america. these investments are not hedged and we do not believe we have material foreign exchange risk either individually, or in the aggregate, pertaining to these subsidiaries. in addition, we are subject to foreign exchange risk due to our holdings of cash and certain other assets and liabilities, which result from transactions denominated in a currency other than the u.s. dollar. these foreign currency transactions are not hedged and the related gains/losses arising therefrom are reflected in other revenue on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. credit risk credit risk is the risk of loss due to adverse changes in a borrower's, issuer's or counterparty's ability to meet its financial obligations under contractual or agreed upon terms. the nature and amount of credit risk depends on the type of transaction, the structure and duration of that transaction, and the parties involved. credit risk is an integral component of the profit assessment of lending and other financing activities. we are engaged in various trading and brokerage activities whose counterparties primarily include broker-dealers, banks and other financial institutions. we are exposed to risk that these counterparties may not fulfill their obligations. the risk of default depends on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and/or the issuer of the instrument. we manage this risk by imposing and monitoring individual and aggregate position limits within each business segment for each counterparty, conducting regular credit reviews of financial counterparties, reviewing security and loan concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral on certain transactions and conducting business through clearing organizations, which may guarantee performance. our client activities involve the execution, settlement, and financing of various transactions on behalf of our clients. client activities are transacted on either a cash or margin basis. credit exposure results from client margin accounts, which are monitored daily and are collateralized. we monitor exposure to industry sectors and individual securities and perform analysis on a regular basis in connection with our margin lending activities. we adjust our margin requirements if we believe our risk exposure is not appropriate based on market conditions. in addition, when clients execute a purchase, we are at some risk that the client will renege on the trade. if this occurs, we may have to liquidate the position at a loss. however, most private clients have available funds in the account before the trade is executed. we offer loans to financial advisors and certain key revenue producers, primarily for recruiting, transitional cost assistance, and retention purposes. we have credit risk and may incur a loss in the event that such borrower declares bankruptcy or is no longer affiliated with us. historically, such losses have not been significant due to our strong advisor retention and successful collection efforts. we are subject to concentration risk if we hold large positions, extend large loans to, or have large commitments with a single counterparty, borrower, or group of similar counterparties or borrowers (e.g. in the same industry). securities purchased under agreements to resell consist primarily of securities issued by the u.s. government or its agencies. receivables from and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are conducted with a large number of clients and counterparties and potential concentration is carefully monitored. inventory and investment positions taken and commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual issuers and businesses. we seek to limit this risk through careful review of the underlying business and the use of limits established by senior management, taking into consideration factors including the financial strength of the counterparty, the size of the position or commitment, the expected duration of the position or commitment and other positions or commitments outstanding. the valuation of the non-agency cmos held as available for sale securities by rj bank is impacted by the credit risk associated with the underlying residential loans. underlying loan characteristics associated with this risk are considered in valuing these securities. ars held by a non-broker-dealer subsidiary of rjf is impacted by the credit worthiness of the ars issuer. see note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for more information. rj bank has substantial corporate, sbl and residential mortgage loan portfolios. a significant downturn in the overall economy, deterioration in real estate values or a significant issue within any sector or sectors where rj bank has a concentration could result in large provisions for loan losses and/or charge-offs. 88 index rj bank's strategy for credit risk management includes well-defined credit policies, uniform underwriting criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all corporate, residential and sbl credit exposures. the strategy also includes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and management reviews of all corporate loans and individual delinquent residential loans. the credit risk management process also includes an annual independent review of the credit risk monitoring process that performs assessments of compliance with corporate and residential mortgage credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit information. rj bank seeks to identify potential problem loans early, record any necessary risk rating changes and charge-offs promptly and maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan losses. rj bank utilizes a comprehensive credit risk rating system to measure the credit quality of individual corporate loans and related unfunded lending commitments, including the probability of default and/or loss given default of each corporate loan and commitment outstanding. for its sbl and residential mortgage loans, rj bank utilizes the credit risk rating system used by bank regulators in measuring the credit quality of each homogeneous class of loans. rj bank's allowance for loan losses methodology is described in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. as rj bank's loan portfolio is segregated into six portfolio segments, likewise, the allowance for loan losses is segregated by these same segments. the risk characteristics relevant to each portfolio segment are as follows: c&amp;i: loans in this segment are made to businesses and are generally secured by all assets of the business. repayment is expected from the cash flows of the respective business. unfavorable economic and political conditions, including the resultant decrease in consumer or business spending, may have an adverse effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre: loans in this segment are primarily secured by income-producing properties. for owner-occupied properties, the cash flows are derived from the operations of the business, and the underlying cash flows may be adversely affected by the deterioration in the financial condition of the operating business. the underlying cash flows generated by non-owner-occupied properties may be adversely affected by increased vacancy and rental rates, which are monitored on a quarterly basis. adverse developments in either of these areas may have a negative effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. cre construction: loans in this segment have similar risk characteristics of loans in the cre segment as described above. in addition, project budget overruns and performance variables related to the contractor and subcontractors may affect the credit quality of loans in this segment. with respect to commercial construction of residential developments, there is also the risk that the builder has a geographical concentration of developments. adverse developments in all of these areas may significantly affect the credit quality of the loans in this segment. tax-exempt: loans in this segment are made to governmental and nonprofit entities and are generally secured by a pledge of revenue, and in some cases, by a security interest in or a mortgage on the asset being financed. for loans to governmental entities, repayment is expected from a pledge of certain revenues or taxes. for nonprofit entities, repayment is expected from revenues which may include fundraising proceeds. these loans are subject to demographic risk therefore, much of the credit assessment of tax-exempt loans is driven by the entity's revenue base and general economic environment. adverse developments in either of these areas may have a negative effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. residential mortgage (includes home equity loans/lines): all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to stringent underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of borrower, loan-to-value ( ltv ), and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). rj bank does not originate or purchase option adjustable rate mortgage ( arm ) loans with negative amortization, reverse mortgages, or other types of non-traditional loan products. loans with deeply discounted teaser rates are not originated or purchased. all loans in this segment are collateralized by residential real estate and repayment is primarily dependent on the credit quality of the individual borrower. a decline in the strength of the economy, particularly unemployment rates and housing prices, among other factors, could have a significant effect on the credit quality of loans in this segment. sbl: loans in this segment are secured by marketable securities at advance rates consistent with industry standards. these loans are monitored daily for adherence to ltv guidelines and when a loan exceeds the required ltv, a collateral call is issued. past due loans are minimal as any past due amounts result in a notice to the client for payment or the potential sale of securities which will bring the loan current and may bring the loan within the prescribed ltv guidelines. in evaluating credit risk, rj bank considers trends in loan performance, the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking institutions, industry or customer concentrations, the loan portfolio composition and macroeconomic factors. during fiscal year 2016 corporate profit levels declined slightly and have remained weak as compared to historic levels. unemployment rates have remained relatively flat. retail sales continue to be sluggish and credit quality trends, while improved in some sectors, remain somewhat tenuous. the volatility in residential home values in certain geographies has continued to have an impact on 89 index residential mortgage loan performance. all of these factors have a potentially negative impact on loan performance and net charge-offs. however, during fiscal year 2016 , corporate borrowers have continued to access the markets for new equity and debt. several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the allowance for loan losses at september 30, 2016 , including the risk profile of the portfolios, net charge-offs during the period, the level of nonperforming loans, and delinquency ratios. rj bank also considered the uncertainty related to certain industry sectors and the extent of credit exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. finally, rj bank considered current economic conditions that might impact the portfolio. rj bank determined the allowance that was required for specific loan grades based on relative risk characteristics of the loan portfolio. on an ongoing basis, rj bank evaluates its methods for determining the allowance for each class of loans and makes enhancements it considers appropriate. there was no material change in rj bank's methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses during the twelve months ended september 30, 2016 . changes in the allowance for loan losses of rj bank are as follows: for the year ended september 30, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 ($ in thousands) allowance for loan losses, beginning of year $ 172,257 $ 147,574 $ 136,501 $ 147,541 $ 145,744 provision for loan losses 28,167 23,570 13,565 2,565 25,894 charge-offs: c&amp;i loans (2,956 ) (1,191 ) (1,845 ) (813 ) (10,486 ) cre loans (16 ) (9,599 ) (2,000 ) residential mortgage loans (1,470 ) (1,667 ) (2,015 ) (6,771 ) (15,270 ) sbl (254 ) (96 ) total charge-offs (4,426 ) (2,858 ) (3,876 ) (17,437 ) (27,852 ) recoveries: c&amp;i loans 611 16 117 cre loans 3,773 80 1,680 1,074 residential mortgage loans 1,417 1,206 1,998 2,299 2,543 sbl 25 35 32 21 total recoveries 1,417 5,615 2,129 4,128 3,638 net (charge-offs) recoveries (3,009 ) 2,757 (1,747 ) (13,309 ) (24,214 ) foreign exchange translation adjustment (37 ) (1,644 ) (745 ) (296 ) 117 allowance for loan losses, end of year $ 197,378 $ 172,257 $ 147,574 $ 136,501 $ 147,541 allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding 1.30 % 1.32 % 1.33 % 1.52 % 1.81 % the primary factors influencing the provision for loan losses during the year as compared to the prior year include higher corporate loan growth, the charges during the current year resulting from loans outstanding within the energy sector, as well as additional provision for corporate loan downgrades resulting in higher criticized loans as compared to the prior year. the allowance for loan losses of $197 million as of september 30, 2016 increased from the prior year due to significant loan portfolio growth during the fiscal year. the allowance for loan losses to total bank loans outstanding declined to 1.30% at september 30, 2016 from 1.32% at september 30, 2015 . 90 index the following table presents net loan (charge-offs)/recoveries and the percentage of net loan (charge-offs)/recoveries to the average outstanding loan balances by loan portfolio segment: for the year ended september 30, 2016 2015 2014 net loan (charge-off) amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan (charge-off)/recovery amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan (charge-off)/recovery amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (2,956 ) 0.04 % $ (580 ) 0.01 % $ (1,829 ) 0.03 % cre loans 3,773 0.22 % 64 residential mortgage loans (53 ) (461 ) 0.02 % (17 ) sbl 25 35 total $ (3,009 ) 0.02 % $ 2,757 0.02 % $ (1,747 ) 0.02 % for the year ended september 30, 2013 2012 net loan (charge-off) amount % of avg. outstanding loans net loan (charge-off) amount % of avg. outstanding loans ($ in thousands) c&amp;i loans $ (696 ) 0.01 % $ (10,486 ) 0.22 % cre loans (7,919 ) 0.73 % (926 ) 0.11 % residential mortgage loans (4,472 ) 0.26 % (12,727 ) 0.73 % sbl (222 ) 0.05 % (75 ) 0.08 % total $ (13,309 ) 0.15 % $ (24,214 ) 0.32 % the level of charge-off activity is a factor that is considered in evaluating the potential for and severity of future credit losses. net loan charge-off activity during the current year as compared to the prior year increased $6 million as the current year reflected net charge-offs resulting from the resolution of certain corporate criticized loans while the prior year reflected net recoveries in the corporate loan portfolio for that respective fiscal year. continued improved credit characteristics in the residential mortgage loan portfolio have resulted in insignificant amounts of net charge-offs during each of our fiscal years 2016 and 2015. 91 index the table below presents nonperforming loans and total allowance for loan losses: september 30, 2016 2015 2014 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance ( $ in thousands) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans $ 35,194 $ (137,701 ) $ $ (117,623 ) $ $ (103,179 ) cre construction loans (1,614 ) (2,707 ) (1,594 ) cre loans 4,230 (36,533 ) 4,796 (30,486 ) 18,876 (25,022 ) tax-exempt loans (4,100 ) (5,949 ) (1,380 ) residential mortgage loans 41,783 (12,664 ) 47,823 (12,526 ) 61,789 (14,350 ) sbl (4,766 ) (2,966 ) (2,049 ) total $ 81,207 $ (197,378 ) $ 52,619 $ (172,257 ) $ 80,665 $ (147,574 ) total nonperforming loans as a % of rj bank total loans 0.53 % 0.40 % 0.73 % september 30, 2013 2012 nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance nonperforming loan balance allowance for loan losses balance ($ in thousands) loans held for investment: c&amp;i loans $ 89 $ (95,994 ) $ 19,517 $ (92,409 ) cre construction loans (1,000 ) (739 ) cre loans 25,512 (19,266 ) 8,404 (27,546 ) residential mortgage loans 76,357 (19,126 ) 78,739 (26,138 ) sbl (1,115 ) (709 ) total $ 101,958 $ (136,501 ) $ 106,660 $ (147,541 ) total nonperforming loans as a % of rj bank total loans 1.14 % 1.31 % the level of nonperforming loans is another indicator of potential future credit losses. the amount of nonperforming loans increased during the year ended september 30, 2016 . this increase was due to a $35 million increase in nonperforming c&amp;i loans partially offset by a $6 million decrease in nonperforming residential mortgage loans. included in nonperforming residential mortgage loans are $40 million in loans for which $20 million in charge-offs were previously recorded, resulting in less exposure within the remaining balance. the nonperforming loan balances above excludes $14 million, $15 million, $14 million, $10 million, and $13 million as of september 30, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012 respectively, of residential troubled debt restructurings ( tdr ) which were returned to accrual status in accordance with our policy. loan underwriting policies a component of rj bank's credit risk management strategy is conservative, well-defined policies and procedures. rj bank's underwriting policies for the major types of loans are: sbl and residential mortgage loan portfolio rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio consists of first mortgage loans originated by rj bank via referrals from our pcg financial advisors and the general public as well as first mortgage loans purchased by rj bank. all of rj bank's residential mortgage loans adhere to strict underwriting parameters pertaining to credit score and credit history, debt-to-income ratio of the borrower, ltv, and combined ltv (including second mortgage/home equity loans). approximately 85% of the residential loans are fully documented loans and 98% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio is owner-occupant borrowers for their primary or 92 index second home residences, of which approximately 85% is for their primary residences. approximately 10% of the first lien residential mortgage loans are arms with interest-only payments based on a fixed rate for an initial period of the loan, typically five to seven years, then become fully amortizing, subject to annual and lifetime interest rate caps. a high percentage of our originated 15 or 30-year fixed-rate mortgage loans are sold in the secondary market. rj bank's sbl portfolio is comprised of loans fully collateralized by client's marketable securities and represents 12% of rj bank's total loan portfolio. the underwriting policy for rj bank's sbl primarily includes a review of collateral, including ltv, with a limited review of repayment history. while rj bank has chosen not to participate in any government-sponsored loan modification programs, its loan modification policy does take into consideration some of the programs' parameters and supports every effort to assist borrowers within the guidelines of safety and soundness. in general, rj bank considers the qualification terms outlined in the government-sponsored programs as well as the affordability test and other factors. rj bank retains flexibility to determine the appropriate modification structure and required documentation to support the borrower's current financial situation before approving a modification. short sales are also used by rj bank to mitigate credit losses. corporate loan portfolio rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is comprised of approximately 480 borrowers, the majority of which are underwritten, managed and reviewed at rj bank's corporate headquarters location, which facilitates close monitoring of the portfolio by credit risk personnel, relationship officers and senior rj bank executives. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is diversified among a number of industries in both the u.s. and canada and comprised of project finance real estate loans, commercial lines of credit and term loans, the majority of which are participations in shared national credit ( snc ) or other large syndicated loans, and tax-exempt loans. rj bank is sometimes involved in the syndication of the loan at inception and some of these loans have been purchased in the secondary trading markets. as the process for evaluating the sncs or other large syndications is consistent with the process for the other c&amp;i, cre and cre construction loans in the portfolio, there is no additional credit risk with syndicated loans as compared to any other c&amp;i, cre and cre construction loan in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's tax-exempt loans are long-term loans to governmental and nonprofit entities. these loans generally have lower overall credit risk, but are subject to other risks that are not usually present with corporate clients including the risk associated with the constituency served by a local government and the risk in ensuring an obligation has appropriate tax treatment. the remainder of the corporate loan portfolio is comprised of smaller participations and direct loans. there are no subordinated loans or mezzanine financings in the corporate loan portfolio. regardless of the source, all corporate loans are independently underwritten to rj bank credit policies and are subject to loan committee approval, and credit quality is monitored on an on-going basis by rj bank's corporate lending staff. rj bank credit policies include criteria related to ltv limits based upon property type, single borrower loan limits, loan term and structure parameters (including guidance on leverage, debt service coverage ratios and debt repayment ability), industry concentration limits, secondary sources of repayment, municipality demographics, and other criteria. a large portion of rj bank's corporate loans are to borrowers in industries in which we have expertise, through coverage provided by our capital markets research analysts. more than half of rj bank's corporate borrowers are public companies. rj bank's corporate loans are generally secured by all assets of the borrower, in some instances are secured by mortgages on specific real estate, and with respect to tax-exempt loans, are generally secured by a pledge of revenue. in a limited number of transactions, loans in the portfolio are extended on an unsecured basis. in addition, all corporate loans are subject to rj bank's regulatory review. risk monitoring process another component of the credit risk strategy at rj bank is the ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for all residential, sbl and corporate credit exposures as well as our rigorous processes to manage and limit credit losses arising from loan delinquencies. there are various other factors included in these processes, depending on the loan portfolio. sbl and residential mortgage loans the marketable collateral securing rj bank's sbl is monitored on a daily basis. collateral adjustments are made by the borrower as necessary to ensure rj bank's loans are adequately secured, resulting in minimizing its credit risk. collateral calls have been minimal relative to our sbl portfolio with no losses incurred to date. we track and review many factors to monitor credit risk in rj bank's residential mortgage loan portfolio. the qualitative factors include, but are not limited to: loan performance trends, loan product parameters and qualification requirements, borrower credit scores, occupancy (i.e., owner occupied, second home or investment property), level of documentation, loan purpose, geographic concentrations, average loan size, loan policy exceptions, and updated ltv ratios. these qualitative measures, while 93 index considered and reviewed in establishing the allowance for loan losses, have not resulted in any material quantitative adjustments to rj bank's historical loss rates. rj bank obtains the most recently available information (generally on a quarter lag) to estimate current ltv ratios on the individual loans in the performing residential mortgage loan portfolio. current ltv ratios are estimated based on the initial appraisal obtained at the time of origination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing price changes that have occurred since origination. the value of the homes could vary from actual market values due to change in the condition of the underlying property, variations in housing price changes within current valuation indices and other factors. the current average estimated ltv is 54% for the total residential mortgage loan portfolio. residential mortgage loans with estimated ltvs in excess of 100% represent slightly less than 1% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio. credit risk management considers this data in conjunction with delinquency statistics, loss experience and economic circumstances to establish appropriate allowance for loan losses for the residential mortgage loan portfolio, which is based upon an estimate for the probability of default and loss given default for each homogeneous class of loans. at september 30, 2016 , loans over 30 days delinquent (including nonperforming loans) decreased to 1.20% of residential mortgage loans outstanding, compared to 1.69% over 30 days delinquent at september 30, 2015 . additionally, our september 30, 2016 percentage compares favorably to the national average for over 30 day delinquencies of 4.49% as most recently reported by the fed. rj bank's significantly lower delinquency rate as compared to its peers is the result of both our uniform underwriting policies and the lack of subprime loans and limited amount of non-traditional loan products. the following table presents a summary of delinquent residential mortgage loans: delinquent residential loans (amount) delinquent residential loans as a percentage of outstanding loan balances 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) 30-89 days 90 days or more total (1) ($ in thousands) september 30, 2016 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 3,950 $ 25,429 $ 29,379 0.16 % 1.05 % 1.21 % home equity loans/lines 20 20 0.10 % 0.10 % total residential mortgage loans $ 3,950 $ 25,449 $ 29,399 0.16 % 1.04 % 1.20 % september 30, 2015 residential mortgage loans: first mortgage loans $ 4,849 $ 28,036 $ 32,885 0.25 % 1.44 % 1.69 % home equity loans/lines 30 231 261 0.14 % 1.09 % 1.23 % total residential mortgage loans $ 4,879 $ 28,267 $ 33,146 0.25 % 1.44 % 1.69 % (1) comprised of loans which are two or more payments past due as well as loans in process of foreclosure. to manage and limit credit losses, we maintain a rigorous process to manage our loan delinquencies. with all residential first mortgages serviced by a third party, the primary collection effort resides with the servicer. rj bank personnel direct and actively monitor the servicers' efforts through extensive communications regarding individual loan status changes and requirements of timely and appropriate collection or property management actions and reporting, including management of third parties used in the collection process (appraisers, attorneys, etc.). additionally, every residential mortgage loan over 60 days past due is reviewed by rj bank personnel monthly and documented in a written report detailing delinquency information, balances, collection status, appraised value, and other data points. rj bank senior management meets monthly to discuss the status, collection strategy and charge-off/write-down recommendations on every residential mortgage loan over 60 days past due. updated collateral valuations are obtained for loans over 90 days past due and charge-offs are taken on individual loans based on these valuations. 94 index credit risk is also managed by diversifying the residential mortgage portfolio. the geographic concentrations (top five states) of rj bank's one-to-four family residential mortgage loans are as follows: september 30, 2016 september 30, 2015 loans outstanding as a % of rj bank total residential mortgage loans loans outstanding as a % of rj bank total loans loans outstanding as a % of rj bank total residential mortgage loans loans outstanding as a % of rj bank total loans ca (1) 21.0% 3.2% fl 20.5% 2.9% fl 18.9% 2.9% ca (1) 19.6% 2.8% tx 7.1% 1.1% ny 5.9% 0.8% ny 5.5% 0.8% tx 5.8% 0.8% il 3.6% 0.6% nj 4.2% 0.6% (1) the concentration ratios for the state of california excludes 4.4% and 4.7% from the computation of loans outstanding as a percentage of rj bank total residential mortgage loans, and 0.7% and 0.9% from the computation of loans outstanding as a percentage of rj bank total loans, for september 30, 2016 and 2015 respectively, for loans purchased from a large investment grade institution that have full repurchase recourse for any delinquent loans. loans where borrowers may be subject to payment increases include adjustable rate mortgage loans with terms that initially require payment of interest only. payments may increase significantly when the interest-only period ends and the loan principal begins to amortize. at september 30, 2016 and 2015 , these loans totaled $308 million and $264 million, respectively, or approximately 10% and 15% of the residential mortgage portfolio, respectively. at september 30, 2016 , the balance of amortizing, former interest-only, loans totaled $296 million. the weighted average number of years before the remainder of the loans, which were still in their interest-only period at september 30, 2016 , begins amortizing is 4.8 years. the outstanding balance of loans that were interest-only at origination and based on their contractual terms are scheduled to reprice, are as follows: september 30, 2016 (in thousands) one year or less $ 59,128 over one year through two years 10,830 over two years through three years 16,235 over three years through four years 36,078 over four years through five years 26,942 over five years 158,624 total outstanding residential interest-only loan balance $ 307,837 a component of credit risk management for the residential portfolio is the ltv and borrower credit score at origination or purchase. the most recent ltv/fico scores at origination of rj bank's residential first mortgage loan portfolio are as follows: september 30, 2016 september 30, 2015 residential first mortgage loan weighted-average ltv/fico 65%/760 66%/757 corporate loans credit risk in rj bank's corporate loan portfolio is monitored on an individual loan basis for trends in borrower operating performance, payment history, credit ratings, collateral performance, loan covenant compliance, semi-annual snc exam results, municipality demographics, and other factors including industry performance and concentrations. as part of the credit review process the loan grade is reviewed at least quarterly to confirm the appropriate risk rating for each credit. the individual loan ratings resulting from the snc exams are incorporated in rj bank's internal loan ratings when the ratings are received and if the snc rating is lower on an individual loan than rj bank's internal rating, the loan is downgraded. while rj bank considers historical snc exam results in its loan ratings methodology, differences between the snc exam and internal ratings on individual loans typically arise due to subjectivity of the loan classification process. these differences may result in additional provision for loan losses in periods when snc exam results are received. see note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, specifically the bank loans and allowances for losses section, for additional information on rj bank's allowance for loan loss policies. see the credit risk section in item 7a of this report for additional information on rj bank's corporate loan portfolio. 95 index at september 30, 2016 , other than loans classified as nonperforming, there were no loans that were delinquent greater than 30 days. credit risk is also managed by diversifying the corporate loan portfolio. rj bank's corporate loan portfolio does not contain a significant concentration in any single industry. the industry concentrations (top five categories) of rj bank's corporate loans are as follows: september 30, 2016 september 30, 2015 loans outstanding as a % of rj bank total corporate loans loans outstanding as a % of rj bank total loans loans outstanding as a % of rj bank total corporate loans loans outstanding as a % of rj bank total loans office (real estate) 5.6% 4.0% retail real estate 5.8% 4.3% hospitality 5.2% 3.7% pharmaceuticals 5.7% 4.2% consumer products and services 5.0% 3.6% consumer products and services 5.5% 4.1% retail real estate 4.6% 3.3% hospitality 5.4% 4.0% power &amp; infrastructure 4.6% 3.3% automotive/transportation 4.5% 3.3% rj bank's energy loan portfolio is primarily comprised of loans to mid-stream pipeline and other borrowers that are not directly exposed to the commodity. at september 30, 2016 , the total commitment for these loans was $696 million, of which $408 million was outstanding, representing 4% of rj bank's total corporate loan portfolio and 3% of rj bank's total loans. there was $83 million of this outstanding balance rated as criticized loans. as of september 30, 2016 , rj bank had provided an allowance for loan losses of $30 million for its energy loan portfolio, representing 7% of this loan portfolio. liquidity risk see the section entitled liquidity and capital resources in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in this report for more information regarding our liquidity and how we manage liquidity risk. operational risk operational risk generally refers to the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including, but not limited to, business disruptions, improper or unauthorized execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in our technology or financial operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in our control processes including cyber security incidents (see the section entitled our businesses depend on technology in item 1a, risk factors in this report for a discussion of certain cyber security risks). we operate different businesses in diverse markets and are reliant on the ability of our employees and systems to process a large number of transactions. these risks are less direct than credit and market risk, but managing them is critical, particularly in a rapidly changing environment with increasing transaction volumes and complexity. in the event of a breakdown or improper operation of systems or improper action by employees, we could suffer financial loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. in order to mitigate and control operational risk, we have developed and continue to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels throughout the organization and within such departments as accounting, operations, information technology, legal, compliance, risk management and internal audit. these control mechanisms attempt to ensure that operational policies and procedures are being followed and that our various businesses are operating within established corporate policies and limits. business continuity plans exist for critical systems, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. we have an operational risk management committee (chaired by our chief operating officer and comprised of senior managers), which reviews and addresses operational risks across our businesses. the committee establishes, and from time-to-time will reassess, risk appetite levels for major operational risks, monitors operating unit performance for adherence to defined risk tolerances, and establishes policies for risk management at the enterprise level. as more fully described in the discussion of our business technology risks included in item 1a: risk factors in this report, notwithstanding that we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code and other events that could have an impact on the security and stability of our operations. if one or more of these events were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, including that of our clients and counterparties, which is processed, stored in and transmitted through our 96 index computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our clients or counterparties. to-date, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, however, there can be no assurances that we will not suffer such losses in the future. regulatory and legal risk we have comprehensive procedures addressing regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, use of and safekeeping of client funds, extension of credit, collection activities, money laundering and record keeping. we have designated anti-money laundering ( aml ) officers in each of our subsidiaries who monitor compliance with regulations adopted under the patriot act. we expect that compliance with the dol rule and reliance on the bic exemption and the principal transactions exemption will require us to incur increased legal, compliance and information technology costs. in addition, we may face enhanced legal risks. refer to the regulation section of item 1 in this form 10-k for a discussion of the dol rule. we act as an underwriter or selling group member in both equity and fixed income product offerings. particularly when acting as lead or co-lead manager, we have financial and legal exposure. to manage this exposure, a committee of senior executives review proposed underwriting commitments to assess the quality of the offering and the adequacy of due diligence investigation. a compliance and standards committee comprised of senior executives meets monthly to consider policy issues. the committee reviews material client or customer complaints and litigation, as well as issues in operating departments, for the purpose of identifying issues that present risk exposure to either us or our customers. the committee adopts policies to deal with these issues, which are then disseminated throughout our operations. a quality of markets committee meets regularly to monitor the best execution activities of our trading departments as they relate to customer orders. this committee is comprised of representatives from the otc trading, listed trading, options, municipal trading, taxable trading, compliance and legal departments and is under the direction of one of our senior officers. this committee reviews reports from the respective departments listed above and recommends action for improvement when necessary. our major business units have compliance departments that are responsible for regularly reviewing and revising compliance and supervisory procedures to conform to changes in applicable regulations. our banking activities are highly regulated and subject to impact from changes in banking laws and regulations, including unanticipated rulings. present economic conditions have led to rapid introduction of significant regulatory programs or changes affecting consumer protection and disclosure requirements, financial reporting, and regulatory restructuring. regulatory requirements including recent changes to consumer and mortgage lending regulations, as well as new regulatory or government programs, are closely monitored and acted upon to ensure a timely response. see further discussion of our risks associated with new regulations, including the dodd-frank act, in item 1a, risk factors within this report. the nature of the periodic examinations of our operations by our various regulators, applicable to not only our banking activities but also to our broker-dealer operational activities, have been active, expanding in some respects as it pertains to the scope of their annual reviews, and reflective of a heightened level of scrutiny of the operations and activities of financial services entities. we continue to incur costs to support these reviews, and evaluate and implement changes in our processes and procedures to improve and continue to comply with all of the various regulations to which we are subject. given this environment, we cannot predict the impact that the ultimate outcome resulting from the periodic examinations by one or more of our regulators could have on our future costs or results of operations. legal risk includes the risk of pcg client claims, the possibility of sizable adverse legal judgments, exposure to pre-closing date litigation matters of morgan keegan should regions fail to honor its indemnification obligations (see item 3 legal proceedings in this report and note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further discussion of the regions indemnification for such matters) and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we are generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which we conduct business. regulatory oversight of the financial services industry has become increasingly demanding over the past several years and we, as well as others in the industry, have been directly affected by this increased regulatory scrutiny. in recent years, we have made and expect to continue to expand our deployment of significant resources in support of our aml program. we have significantly increased the number of associates dedicated to aml monitoring, expanded training for 97 index our associates, and during fiscal year 2016 implemented a leading aml software solution. all of these activities allow us to increase our monitoring and detection of suspicious and reportable activities. we hold certain private equity investments which are subject to the volcker rule. the conformance period for compliance with the rule with respect to investments in certain illiquid funds has been extended and banking entities may still apply for an additional five-year extension with respect to investments in certain illiquid funds. the extension of the conformance deadline provides us with additional time to realize the value of these investments in due course and implement any additional actions necessary for conformance with the rule. to the extent that any of our covered funds satisfy the fed's criteria for further extension for certain illiquid funds, we may apply for such extensions, although there is no assurance that any such extension would be granted. while we anticipate the liquidation of these investments to take place over a number of years, many of these fund investments meet the definition of prohibited covered funds as defined by the volcker rule of the dodd-frank act. in order to be compliant with the volcker rule by its' july 2017 conformance period, it is possible that we may be required to sell our interests in such funds. if that occurs, we may receive a value for our interests that is less than the carrying value as there is a limited secondary market for these investments and we may be unable to sell them in orderly transactions. see further discussion of these regulations in the regulatory section of item 1 in this report, and see note 5 of our notes to consolidated financial statements within this form 10-k for information on the fair value of these private equity investments. we have a number of outstanding claims resulting from, among other reasons, market conditions. while these claims may not be the result of any wrongdoing, we do, at a minimum, incur costs associated with investigating and defending against such claims. see further discussion of our accounting policy regarding such matters in the loss provisions arising from legal proceedings section of critical accounting estimates contained within item 7, management's discussion of analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this report and in note 2 of our notes to consolidated financial statements within this form 10-k. 98 indexrisk factors 15 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. the list of risk factors provided below is not exhaustive; there may be factors not discussed below or in this form 10-k that adversely impact our results of operations, harm our reputation or inhibit our ability to generate new business prospects. risks related to our business and industry damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, investors and associates. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues may include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, including appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity and privacy, record-keeping, and sales and trading practices, the failure to sell securities we have underwritten at anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. failure to maintain appropriate service and quality standards, or a failure or perceived failure to treat clients fairly can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and reputational harm. negative publicity about us, whether or not true, may also harm our future business prospects. we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including economic output levels, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, prices of commodities including oil and gas, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. for example, fed policies determine, in large part, the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies also can decrease materially the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. macroeconomic conditions also may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. 15 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries at times over the last several years we have experienced operating cycles during weak and uncertain u.s. and global economic conditions, including low economic output levels, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, relatively high unemployment rates, and significant uncertainty with respect to domestic and international fiscal and monetary policy. these conditions led to changes in the global financial markets that from time to time negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability. while global financial markets have improved, uncertainty remains. a period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, a return to very low levels of short-term interest rates, credit market dislocations, reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors could significantly impair our revenues and profitability. additionally, certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading opportunities for our clients and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities or adversely affect the results of these activities. we could experience a decline in commission revenue from lower trading volumes, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from capital markets and advisory transactions due to reduced activity, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers' and market participants' failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses. periods of reduced revenue and other losses could be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses, including, but not limited to, our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and our ability to reduce them over short time periods is limited. u.s. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in other parts of the world. concerns about the european union ( eu ), including britain's june 2016 referendum to exit the eu ( brexit ), and the stability of the eu's sovereign debt, has caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the eu's financial support programs. it is possible that other eu member states may experience financial troubles in the future, or may choose to follow britain's lead and leave the eu. any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. u.s. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures and ongoing concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality. if these trends continue or worsen, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and, in turn, reduce investment banking revenues. in addition, such factors could adversely affect the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio. rj bank is affected primarily by economic conditions in north america. market conditions in the united states and canada can be assessed through the following metrics: the level and volatility of interest rates; unemployment and under-employment rates; real estate prices; consumer confidence levels and changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. deterioration of market conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. we must maintain appropriate liquidity levels. our inability to maintain adequate liquidity and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at unfavorable prices, and cutting or eliminating dividend payments. our liquidity could be negatively affected by the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, regulatory changes to the liquidity or capital requirements applicable to our subsidiaries that may prevent us from upstreaming cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets for rjf, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to prohibitions or limitations on our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase our stock. the occ, the fed, the fdic, and the sec (through finra) have the authority, and under certain circumstances, the duty, to prohibit or to limit dividend payments by regulated subsidiaries to their parent. the availability of financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on various factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector and our credit ratings. our cost of capital and the availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease to provide, funding to borrowers as a result of future concerns over the strength of specific counterparties, as well as the stability of markets generally. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. 16 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their performance obligations due to numerous causes, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failure, among others. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers' market making and underwriting businesses, which exposes us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold certain securities, loans and derivatives in our trading accounts. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses. we borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and/or resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits, as well as by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to widespread concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals through the offering of loans, including c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and other loans collateralized by securities. we also incur credit risk through our investments. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, or geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, acts of terrorism, severe weather events or other adverse economic events, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our securities. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. we are exposed to market risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, interest rate changes could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. interest rate changes could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. conversely, in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and private equity investments. market 17 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity. our private equity investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts, and advisory fees. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition and the renegotiation of contracts. in addition, the market environment in recent years has resulted in a shift to passive investment products, which generate lower fees than actively managed products. a continued trend toward passive investments or changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management ( aum ). aum balances are impacted by net inflows/outflows of client assets and market values. below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impact our business and financial condition. if we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline. in addition, in periods of declining market values, our values of aum may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues. our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings in which we are involved. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, despite risk mitigation policies, we may incur losses as a result of positions we hold in connection with our market making or underwriting activities. from time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results. we have made and, to the limited extent permitted by applicable regulations, may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments; however, our current focus is on the divestiture of our existing portfolio. we may be unable to realize our investment objectives if we cannot sell or otherwise dispose of our interests at attractive prices or complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments. even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. 18 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries any cyber-attack or other security breach of our technology systems, or those of our clients or other third-party vendors we rely on, could subject us to significant liability and harm our reputation. our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential financial, personal and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber-attacks involving the theft, dissemination and destruction of corporate information or other assets, in some cases as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties. like other financial services firms, we are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks, including unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, denial-of-service attacks, phishing or other forms of social engineering, and other events, and we seek to continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. cyber-attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties affiliated with foreign governments, organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals within our firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. although cyber security incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, the techniques used in these attacks are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. although we seek to maintain a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, including our cyber threat analytics, data encryption and tokenization technologies, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management program, any one or combination of these controls could fail to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code, and other events that could result in significant liability and damage to our reputation, and have an ongoing impact on the security and stability of our operations. we also rely on numerous third party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations, and we face similar risks relating to them. while we regularly conduct security assessments on these third party vendors, we cannot be certain that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach. in addition, in order to access our products and services, our customers may use computers and other devices that are beyond our security control systems. notwithstanding the precautions we take, if a cyber-attack or other information security breach were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, or otherwise cause interruptions in our operations or those of our clients and counterparties, exposing us to liability. as attempted attacks continue to evolve in scope and sophistication, we may be required to expend substantial additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to communicate about cyber-attacks to our customers. though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our financial products and services. further, in light of the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of our clients, partners and counterparties, and the increasing sophistication of malicious actors, a cyber-attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. we expect that any investigation of a cyber-attack would take substantial amounts of time, and that there may be extensive delays before we obtain full and reliable information. during such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all of which would further increase the costs and consequences of such an attack. we may also be subject to liability under various data protection laws. in providing services to clients, we manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. as a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as u.s. federal, state and international laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. if any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. in addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue. potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant. depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. 19 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. as a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be affected adversely by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. losses arising in connection with counterparty defaults may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our market, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be effective. our banking and trading processes seek to balance our ability to profit from banking and trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. while we use limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate unforeseen economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. our risk management methods may not predict future risk exposures effectively. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate or may have limited predictive value. a failure to manage our growth adequately, including growth in the products or services we offer, or to manage our risk effectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. financial services firms are subject to numerous actual or perceived conflicts of interest, which are under growing scrutiny by u.s. federal and state regulators and sros such as finra. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities. a perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest adequately could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause result in material harm to our business and financial condition. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management, in this report. we continue to experience pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. we continue to experience pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we experience pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. 20 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), and location and reputation in relevant markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms and hedge funds, among others. this competition could cause our business to suffer. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. the inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, we may incur substantial expenditures to keep pace with the constant changes and enhancements being made in technology. our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business. our ability to develop and retain our clients depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our senior professionals, and the members of our executive committees, as well as employees and financial advisors. to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. turnover in the financial services industry is high. the cost of recruiting and retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. financial industry employers are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as in a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. to the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees, which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are not within our target range. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. if we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. if we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may work for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who work for our competitors from joining us. recently, a large broker-dealer competitor announced its withdrawal from the protocol for broker recruiting ( protocol ), a voluntary agreement among over 1,700 firms that governs, among other things, the client information that financial advisors may take with them when they affiliate with a new firm. the ability to bring such customer data to a new broker-dealer generally means that the financial advisor is better able to move client account balances to his or her new firm. it is possible that other competitors will similarly withdraw from the protocol. if the broker-dealers from whom we recruit new financial advisors prevent, or significantly limit, the transfer of client data, our recruiting efforts may be adversely affected and we could experience a higher number of claims against us relating to our recruiting efforts. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and financial condition. if our credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our client relationships. such a change in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease 21 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. we may not be able to obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions. a credit rating downgrade would also result in rjf incurring a higher commitment fee on any unused balance on its $300 million revolving credit facility, in addition to triggering a higher interest rate applicable to any borrowings outstanding on the line as of and subsequent to such downgrade (see note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for information on this revolving credit facility). business growth could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks. we continue to grow through acquisitions. integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. we may incur significant expense in connection with expanding our existing businesses, recruiting financial advisors, or making strategic acquisitions or investments. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues derived from such investments or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves hiring additional personnel to address these procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate or not adhered to with respect to our expanded business or any new business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. moreover, to the extent we pursue acquisitions we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. we may be unable to integrate any acquired business into our existing business successfully. difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise capital or borrow in order to finance an acquisition, which could result in dilution or increased leverage. we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or perhaps at all. a continued interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or the failure to effectively update the technology we utilize, could be materially adverse to our business. our businesses rely extensively on data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to: (i) successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our technology systems; (ii) address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands; and (iii) retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our technology systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other applicable laws and regulatory sanctions. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks. associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. there have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by associates in the financial services industry. there is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. for example, our banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. if our associates were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. we are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. in addition, our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management. the violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely 22 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries affect our clients and us. it is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective. if our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. we are exposed to litigation risks, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and prospects. many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our associates could result in substantial liability. our private client group business segment has historically been more susceptible to litigation than our institutional businesses. in challenging market conditions, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. these risks include potential liability under securities laws or other laws for: alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions; issues related to the suitability of our investment recommendations; the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions; contractual issues; employment claims; and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial impact or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and future business prospects. in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see item 3, legal proceedings in this report for a discussion of our legal matters and see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management, in this report for a discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in real estate and credit markets may increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting estimates, in this report for additional information on the nature of these estimates. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available-for-sale securities including auction rate securities ( ars ), certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means, which ultimately rely to some degree on our subjective judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective and, consequently, based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment, as well as declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) and the sec have at times revised the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the critical accounting estimates discussion within item 7 in this report, and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. the fasb has issued several new accounting standards, including on the topics of credit losses, revenue recognition and leases. 23 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries specifically, the new credit losses standard will replace multiple existing impairment models, including the replacement of the incurred loss model for loans with an expected loss model. we are evaluating the potential impact that the adoption of these standards will have on our financial position and results of operations. see note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information. regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with morgan keegan matters. under the definitive stock purchase agreement entered into in connection with our acquisition of morgan keegan &amp; company, inc., and mk holding, inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively referred to as morgan keegan ) from regions financial corporation ( regions ), regions has obligations to continue to indemnify rjf with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters. specifically, the terms of the agreement provide that regions will indemnify rjf for losses incurred in connection with legal proceedings pending as of the closing date of that acquisition (april 2, 2012), or commenced thereafter and related to pre-closing matters that were received prior to the closing date, as well as any cost of defense pertaining thereto. rjf is relying on regions to continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations under the agreement with respect to such matters. our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions in the future, or our failure to recover future losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement, and any adverse judgments, and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels. see note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information regarding the indemnification from regions. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. certain of our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted out of our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee locations and our information systems processing to be conducted out of our information technology data center in the denver, colorado area, our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. as discussed above, weather events could also adversely impact certain loans within rj bank's portfolio. refer to item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this form 10-k for a discussion of our operational risk management. we are exposed to risk from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world and as a result, are exposed to risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, less established regulatory regimes, changes in governmental or central bank policies, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative, economic and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from trading non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above mentioned factors. we are exposed to risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks. we have elected to self-insure our workers compensation, errors and omissions liability and our employee-related health care benefit plans. we have self-insured retention risk related to our property and casualty, and general liability benefit plans. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage appropriate to our risk assessment, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, claims associated with risks we have retained either through our self-insurance retention or by self-insuring, may exceed our recorded reserves which could negatively impact future earnings. insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. 24 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries risks related to our regulatory environment financial services firms have been subject to regulatory changes resulting from the dodd-frank act and increased regulatory scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. financial services firms over the last several years have been operating in an onerous regulatory environment, which could become more stringent in light of recent well-publicized failures of regulators to detect and prevent fraud. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from various regulators, including the sec, the fed, the occ and the cfpb, in addition to stock exchanges, finra and state attorneys general. penalties and fines imposed by regulatory authorities have increased substantially in recent years. we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. as a result of the demand by the public for changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated, including a call for more stringent legislation and regulation in the united states and abroad. the dodd-frank act enacted sweeping changes and an unprecedented increase in the supervision and regulation of the financial services industry (see item 1, regulation, in this report for a discussion of such changes). the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations will have on us, the financial industry and the economy at large cannot be quantified until all of the implementing regulations called for under the legislation have been finalized and fully implemented. nevertheless, it is apparent that these legislative and regulatory changes could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of our assets, require us to alter at least some of our business practices, impose additional compliance costs, and otherwise adversely affect our businesses. the dodd-frank act impacts the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and operations, and interact with regulators, all of which could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that have or may impact our businesses include: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers; regulatory oversight of incentive compensation; the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies; prohibition of proprietary trading; restrictions on investments in covered funds; and, to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading. there is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain consolidated asset thresholds established under the dodd-frank act, which have the effect of imposing enhanced standards and requirements on larger institutions. these include, but are not limited to, rj bank's oversight by the cfpb. the cfpb has had an active enforcement agenda and any action taken by the cfpb could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make such products and services less attractive, impose additional compliance measures, or result in fines, penalties or required remediation. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. we are also required to comply with the volcker rule's provisions. although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of proprietary trading, due to our underwriting and market-making activities and our investments in covered funds, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased operational and compliance costs and changes to our private equity investments. any changes to regulations or changes to the supervisory approach may also result in increased compliance costs to the extent we are required to modify our existing compliance policies, procedures and practices. broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including, but not limited to: sales and trading methods; trade practices among broker-dealers; use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities; capital structure of securities firms; anti-money laundering efforts; recordkeeping; and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. any violation of these laws or regulations could subject us to the following events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects: civil and criminal liability; sanctions, which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers; the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors; censures; fines; or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. there is no assurance that regulators will be satisfied with the policies and procedures implemented by rjf and its subsidiaries. in addition, from time to time, rjf and its affiliates may become subject to additional findings with respect to supervisory, compliance or other regulatory deficiencies, which could subject us to additional liability, including penalties, and restrictions on our business activities. among other things, these restrictions could limit our ability to make investments, complete acquisitions, expand into new business lines, pay dividends and/or engage in share 25 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries repurchases. see item 1, regulation, in this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management, in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. changes in regulations resulting from the dol rule, including the dol fiduciary standard, may adversely affect our businesses. the dol rule became effective earlier in the year, subject to a transition period until january 2018 applying to both the bic exemption and principal transactions exemption. although we have undertaken a comprehensive plan to comply with the dol rule given that qualified accounts, particularly ira accounts, comprise a significant portion of our business, we expect that compliance with the dol rule and reliance on the bic exemption and the principal transactions exemption will require us to continue to incur increased legal, compliance and information technology costs. we anticipate that if the dol rule is amended, a rule imposing heightened standards on broker-dealers is adopted by the sec, or fiduciary rules are adopted at the state level, we will be required to incur additional costs in order to review and possibly modify our compliance plan and approach. implementation of the dol rule, any amendments to the rule, and any rules addressing similar matters will negatively impact our results including the impact of increased costs related to compliance, legal and information technology. in addition, we expect that our legal risks will increase, in part, as a result of the new contractual rights required to be given to ira and non-erisa plan clients under the bic exemption and principal transactions exemption. numerous regulatory changes, and enhanced regulatory and enforcement activity, relating to the asset management business may increase our compliance and legal costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the 1940 act with respect to how mutual funds pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their share . the staff of the sec's office of compliance, inspections and examinations has indicated that it is reviewing the use of fund assets to pay for fees to sub-transfer agents and sub-administrators for services that may be deemed to be distribution-related. any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, their impact cannot be fully ascertained at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries, which have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers. as some of our wholly owned subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the sec, increased regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in augmented operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. it is not possible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. conformance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. for example, pursuant to the dodd-frank act, the sec was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors. it is not clear whether the sec will determine that a heightened standard of conduct is appropriate for broker-dealers; however, any such standard, if mandated, would likely require us to review our product and service offerings and implement certain changes, as well as require that we incur additional regulatory costs in order to ensure compliance. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have recently taken regulatory actions impacting the investment management industry, and may continue to take further actions, including expanding current (or enacting new) standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. for example, several states and municipalities in the united states have adopted pay-to-play rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees. such pay-to-play rules could affect the profitability of that portion of our business. additionally, the use of soft dollars, where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may be limited or modified in the future. a substantial portion of the research relied on by our investment management business in the investment decision making process is generated internally by our investment analysts and external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars. this external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services. if the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these additional costs. furthermore, new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products may impact our asset management business and result in increased costs. for example, many regulators around the world adopted disclosure and reporting requirements relating to the hedge fund business or other businesses, and changes to the laws, rules and regulations in the u.s. related to the over-the-counter swaps and derivatives markets require additional registration, record keeping and reporting obligations. 26 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to rjf, rj bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business. rjf and rj bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by various federal regulators in the united states and, accordingly, must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. the capital amounts and classification for both rjf and rj bank are also subject to qualitative judgments by u. s. federal regulators based on components of our capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rjf and rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted assets, tier 1 capital to average assets and capital conservation buffers (as defined in the regulations). failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory (and potentially additional discretionary) actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either rjf or rj bank's operations and financial condition. as more fully discussed in item 1, regulation, in this report, rjf and rj bank are required to perform annual stress tests using certain scenarios provided by the fed. while we believe that both the quality and size of our capital base is sufficient to support our current operations given our risk profile, the results of the stress testing process may affect our approach to managing and deploying capital. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and finra's net capital rule, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital that a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below certain thresholds. in addition, our canada-based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction by iiroc. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds that rjf needs to make payments on any such obligations. see note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. the basel iii regulatory capital standards impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our profitability. in july 2013, the fed, the occ and the fdic released final u.s. basel iii rules, which implemented the global regulatory capital reforms of basel iii and certain changes required by the dodd-frank act. the u.s. basel iii rules increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establish a capital conservation buffer and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. we became subject to the requirements under the final u.s. basel iii rules as of january 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for several of its provisions, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. the increased capital requirements stipulated under the u.s. basel iii rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. as a financial holding company, rjf's liquidity depends on payments from its subsidiaries, which may be subject to regulatory restrictions. rjf is a financial holding company and therefore depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations, including its debt service obligations. rjf's subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to prevent or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to rjf. rjf's broker-dealers and bank subsidiary are limited in their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and are subject to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as limitations on their ability to use funds deposited with them in broker or bank accounts to fund their businesses. these requirements may hinder rjf's ability to access funds from its subsidiaries. rjf may also become subject to a prohibition or limitations on its ability to pay dividends or repurchase its common stock. the federal banking regulators, including the occ, the fed and the fdic, as well as the sec (through finra) have the authority and under certain circumstances, the obligation, to limit or prohibit dividend payments and stock repurchases by the banking organizations they supervise, including rjf and its bank subsidiaries. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. 27 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries rj bank is subject to the community reinvestment act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties. the cra, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair housing act and other u.s. federal fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. the u.s. department of justice and other federal agencies, including the cfpb, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. a successful challenge to an institution's performance under the cra or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil monetary penalties, injunctive relief, and the imposition of restrictions on mergers, acquisitions and expansion activity. private parties may also have the ability to challenge a financial institution's performance under fair lending laws by bringing private class action litigation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this form 10-k for our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 79 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 15 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. the list of risk factors provided in the following sections is not exhaustive; there may be factors not discussed in the following sections or in this form 10-k that adversely impact our results of operations, harm our reputation or inhibit our ability to generate new business prospects. risks related to our business and industry damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, investors and associates. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues may include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, including appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity and privacy, record-keeping, and sales and trading practices, the failure to sell securities we have underwritten at anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products. failure to maintain appropriate service and quality standards, or a failure or perceived failure to treat clients fairly can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and reputational harm. negative publicity about us, whether or not true, may also harm our future business prospects. we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including economic output levels, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, prices of commodities, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy. for example, fed policies determine, in large part, the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies also can decrease materially the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. macroeconomic conditions also may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. 15 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries while we have recently experienced an operating environment that has been favorable for many of our businesses, at times over the last several years we have experienced operating cycles during weak and uncertain u.s. and global economic conditions. if we were to experience a period of sustained downturns in the securities markets, a return to very low levels of short-term interest rates, credit market dislocations, reductions in the value of real estate, an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, and other negative market factors, our revenues could be significantly impaired. periods of reduced revenue and other losses could lead to reduced profitability because certain of our expenses, including, but not limited to, our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and our ability to reduce them over short time periods is limited. u.s. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in other parts of the world. concerns about the european union ( eu ), including britain's notice to the european council of its decision to exit the eu ( brexit ) and the stability of the eu's sovereign debt, have caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the eu's financial support programs. it is possible that other eu member states may experience financial troubles in the future, or may choose to follow britain's lead and leave the eu. any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. we may be impacted by budget pressures affecting u.s. state and local governments, as well as negative trends in the housing and labor markets. investor concerns regarding these trends could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and, in turn, reduce our fixed income investment banking revenues. in addition, such factors could potentially have an adverse effect on the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio. rj bank is affected primarily by economic conditions in north america. market conditions in the u.s. and canada can be assessed through the following metrics: the level and volatility of interest rates; unemployment and under-employment rates; real estate prices; consumer confidence levels and changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. deterioration of market conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. we must maintain appropriate liquidity levels. our inability to maintain adequate liquidity and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at unfavorable prices, and cutting or eliminating dividend payments. our liquidity could be negatively affected by the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, regulatory changes to the liquidity or capital requirements applicable to our subsidiaries that may prevent us from upstreaming cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets for rjf, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to prohibitions or limitations on our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase our stock. certain of our regulators have the authority, and under certain circumstances, the duty, to prohibit or to limit dividend payments by regulated subsidiaries to their parent. the availability of financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on various factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector and our credit ratings. our cost of capital and the availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease to provide, funding to borrowers as a result of future concerns over the strength of specific counterparties, as well as the stability of markets generally. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their performance obligations due to numerous causes, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failure, among others. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers' market-making and underwriting businesses, which exposes us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold certain securities, loans and derivatives as part of our trading inventory. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses. 16 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries we borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and/or resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits, as well as by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily. significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to widespread concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals through the offering of loans, including c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and other loans collateralized by securities. we also incur credit risk through our investments. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, or geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, acts of terrorism, severe weather events or other adverse economic events, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our securities. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. we are exposed to market risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, interest rate changes could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. interest rate changes could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread and an increase in fees received on our multi-bank deposit sweep program. conversely, in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and private equity investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity. 17 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries our private equity investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management, in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts, and advisory fees. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities. the investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition and the renegotiation of contracts. in addition, the market environment in recent years has resulted in a shift to passive investment products, which generate lower fees than actively managed products. a continued trend toward passive investments or changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees. management fees are primarily based on assets under management ( aum ). aum balances are impacted by net inflows/outflows of client assets and market values. below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impact our business and financial condition. if we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline. in addition, in periods of declining market values, our values of aum may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues. our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings in which we are involved. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. in addition, despite risk mitigation policies, we may incur losses as a result of positions we hold in connection with our market-making or underwriting activities. from time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results. we have made and, to the limited extent permitted by applicable regulations, may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments; however, our current focus is on the divestiture of our existing portfolio. we may be unable to realize our investment objectives if we cannot sell or otherwise dispose of our interests at attractive prices or complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments. even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. any cyber-attack or other security breach of our technology systems, or those of our clients or other third-party vendors we rely on, could subject us to significant liability and harm our reputation. our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential financial, personal and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber-attacks involving the theft, dissemination and destruction of corporate information or other assets, in some cases as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties. like other financial services firms, we are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks, including unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, denial-of-service attacks, phishing or other forms of social engineering, and other events, and we seek to continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. cyber-attacks can 18 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries originate from a variety of sources, including third parties affiliated with foreign governments, organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals within our firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. although cybersecurity incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, the techniques used in these attacks are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. although we seek to maintain a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, including our cyber threat analytics, data encryption and tokenization technologies, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management program, any one or combination of these controls could fail to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code, and other events that could result in significant liability and damage to our reputation, and have an ongoing impact on the security and stability of our operations. we also rely on numerous third-party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations, and we face similar risks relating to them. while we regularly conduct security assessments on these third-party vendors, we cannot be certain that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach. in addition, in order to access our products and services, our customers may use computers and other devices that are beyond our security control systems. notwithstanding the precautions we take, if a cyber-attack or other information security breach were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, or otherwise cause interruptions in our operations or those of our clients and counterparties, exposing us to liability. as attempted attacks continue to evolve in scope and sophistication, we may be required to expend substantial additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to communicate about cyber-attacks to our customers. though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. additionally, the sec issued guidance in february 2018 stating that, as a public company, we are expected to have controls and procedures that relate to cybersecurity disclosure, and are required to disclose information relating to certain cyber-attacks or other information security breaches in disclosures required to be made under the federal securities laws. further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our financial products and services. further, in light of the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of our clients, partners and counterparties, and the increasing sophistication of malicious actors, a cyber-attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. we expect that any investigation of a cyber-attack would take substantial amounts of time, and that there may be extensive delays before we obtain full and reliable information. during such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all of which would further increase the costs and consequences of such an attack. we may also be subject to liability under various data protection laws. in providing services to clients, we manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. as a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as u.s. federal, state and international laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. if any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. in addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue. potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant. depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks. 19 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries a continued interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or the failure to effectively update the technology we utilize, could be materially adverse to our business. our businesses rely extensively on data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to: (i) successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our technology systems; (ii) address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands; and (iii) retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our technology systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other applicable laws and regulatory sanctions. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions. as a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be affected adversely by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. losses arising in connection with counterparty defaults may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our market, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be effective. while we use limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate unforeseen economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. our risk management methods may not predict future risk exposures effectively. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate or may have limited predictive value. a failure to manage our growth adequately, including growth in the products or services we offer, or to manage our risk effectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. financial services firms are subject to numerous actual or perceived conflicts of interest, which are under growing scrutiny by u.s. federal and state regulators and sros such as finra. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities. a perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest adequately could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause result in material harm to our business and financial condition. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this report. 20 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries we continue to experience pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. we continue to experience pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we experience pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, partially due to the industry trend toward unbundling fees related to research and execution. our trading margins have been further compressed by the use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive pressure. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), and location and reputation in relevant markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section entitled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms and hedge funds, among others. this competition could cause our business to suffer. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. the inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, we may incur substantial expenditures to keep pace with the constant changes and enhancements being made in technology. our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business. our ability to develop and retain our clients depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our senior professionals, and the members of our executive committees, as well as employees and financial advisors. to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. turnover in the financial services industry is high. the cost of recruiting and retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. financial industry employers are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as in a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel. to the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees, which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are not within our target range. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. if we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. if we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may work for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who work for our competitors from joining us. certain large broker-dealer competitors have withdrawn from the protocol for broker recruiting ( protocol ), a voluntary agreement among over 1,700 firms that governs, among other things, the client information that financial advisors may take with them when they affiliate with a new firm. the ability to bring such customer 21 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries data to a new broker-dealer generally means that the financial advisor is better able to move client account balances to his or her new firm. it is possible that other competitors will similarly withdraw from the protocol. if the broker-dealers from whom we recruit new financial advisors prevent, or significantly limit, the transfer of client data, our recruiting efforts may be adversely affected and we could experience a higher number of claims against us relating to our recruiting efforts. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and financial condition. if our credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our client relationships. such a change in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. we may not be able to obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions. a credit rating downgrade would also result in rjf incurring a higher commitment fee on any unused balance on its $300 million revolving credit facility (the rjf credit facility ), in addition to triggering a higher interest rate applicable to any borrowings outstanding on the line as of and subsequent to such downgrade (see note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k for information on the rjf credit facility). business growth could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks. we continue to grow, including through acquisitions and through our recruiting efforts. integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. we may incur significant expense in connection with expanding our existing businesses, recruiting financial advisors, or making strategic acquisitions or investments. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues derived from such investments or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves hiring additional personnel to address these procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate or not adhered to with respect to our expanded business or any new business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. moreover, to the extent we pursue acquisitions we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. we may be unable to integrate any acquired business into our existing business successfully. difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise capital or borrow funds in order to finance an acquisition, which could result in dilution or increased leverage. we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or perhaps at all. associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. there is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. for example, our banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. if our associates were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. we are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. in addition, our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management. the violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely affect our clients and us. it is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective. if our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. we are exposed to litigation risks, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and prospects. many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized 22 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries or illegal acts of our associates could result in substantial liability. our pcg business segment has historically been more susceptible to litigation than our institutional businesses. in challenging market conditions, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. litigation risks include potential liability under securities laws or other laws for: alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions; issues related to the suitability of our investment recommendations; the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions; contractual issues; employment claims; and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial impact or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and future business prospects. in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see item 3 legal proceedings of this report for a discussion of our legal matters and see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this report for a discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk. a significant decline in our domestic client cash balances could negatively impact our net revenues and/or our ability to fund rj bank's growth. we rely heavily on bank deposits as a low-cost source of funding for rj bank to extend loans to clients and purchase investment securities. our bank deposits are primarily driven by our multi-bank sweep program in which clients' cash deposits in their brokerage accounts are swept into fdic-insured interest-bearing accounts at rj bank and various third-party banks. a significant reduction in our domestic clients' cash balances, a change in the allocation of that cash between rj bank and third-party banks, or a transfer of cash away from rjf, could impact our net revenues and our ability to fund rj bank's growth. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in real estate and credit markets may increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting estimates of this report for additional information on the nature of these estimates. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available-for-sale securities, certain loans, and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means, which ultimately rely to some degree on our subjective judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no directly observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective and, consequently, based on significant estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment, as well as declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) and the sec have at times revised the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. for further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see item 7 management's 23 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting estimates of this report, and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. the fasb has issued several new accounting standards, including on the topics of credit losses and leases and the federal banking regulators have released implementation guidance and proposed implementation rules for some of these new standards. in particular, the new credit losses standard will replace multiple existing impairment models, including the replacement of the incurred loss model for loans with an expected loss model. we are evaluating the potential impact that the adoption of these standards and the proposed regulatory implementation rules will have on our financial position, results of operations as well as our regulatory capital. see note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k for further information. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. certain of our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted out of our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee locations and our information systems processing to be conducted out of our information technology data center in the denver, colorado area, our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. as previously discussed, weather events could also adversely impact certain loans within rj bank's portfolio. refer to item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this form 10-k for a discussion of our operational risk management. we are exposed to risks from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world and as a result, are exposed to risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, less established regulatory regimes, changes in governmental or central bank policies, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative, economic and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from trading non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above-mentioned factors. we are exposed to risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks. we have elected to self-insure our workers compensation, errors and omissions liability and our employee-related health care benefit plans. we have self-insured retention risk related to our property and casualty, and general liability benefit plans. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage appropriate to our risk assessment, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, claims associated with risks we have retained either through our self-insurance retention or by self-insuring, may exceed our recorded reserves which could negatively impact future earnings. insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. risks related to our regulatory environment financial services firms have been subject to regulatory changes resulting from the dodd-frank act and increased regulatory scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. financial services firms over the last several years have been operating in an onerous regulatory environment. the industry has experienced increased scrutiny from various regulators, including the sec, the fed, the occ and the cfpb, in addition to stock exchanges, finra and state attorneys general. penalties and fines imposed by regulatory authorities have increased substantially in recent years. we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. the dodd-frank act enacted sweeping changes and an unprecedented increase in the supervision and regulation of the financial services industry (see item 1 regulation, of this report for a discussion of such changes). the ultimate impact that the dodd-frank act and implementing regulations, as further modified by the egrrcpa and other financial services legislation, will have on us and the financial 24 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries services industry more broadly cannot be quantified until all of the implementing regulations called for under the legislation have been finalized and fully implemented. nevertheless, it is apparent that these legislative and regulatory changes could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of our assets, require us to alter at least some of our business practices, impose additional compliance costs, and otherwise adversely affect our businesses. the dodd-frank act impacts the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and operations, and interact with regulators, all of which could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. certain provisions of the dodd-frank act that have impacted or may impact our businesses include: the establishment of a uniform fiduciary standard or a best interest standard for broker-dealers; regulatory oversight of incentive compensation; the imposition of increased capital requirements on financial holding companies; prohibition of proprietary trading; restrictions on investments in covered funds; and, to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading. there is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain consolidated asset thresholds established under the dodd-frank act, which have the effect of imposing enhanced standards and requirements on larger institutions. these include, but are not limited to, rj bank's oversight by the cfpb. the cfpb has had an active enforcement agenda and any action taken by the cfpb could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make such products and services less attractive, impose additional compliance measures, or result in fines, penalties or required remediation. to the extent the dodd-frank act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. we are also required to comply with the volcker rule's provisions. although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of proprietary trading, due to our underwriting and market-making activities and our investments in covered funds, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased operational and compliance costs and changes to our private equity investments. any changes to regulations or changes to the supervisory approach may also result in increased compliance costs to the extent we are required to modify our existing compliance policies, procedures and practices. broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including, but not limited to: sales and trading methods; trade practices among broker-dealers; use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities; capital structure of securities firms; anti-money laundering efforts; recordkeeping; and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. any violation of these laws or regulations could subject us to the following events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects: civil and criminal liability; sanctions, which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers; the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors; censures; fines; or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. there is no assurance that regulators will be satisfied with the policies and procedures implemented by rjf and its subsidiaries. in addition, from time to time, rjf and its subsidiaries may become subject to additional findings with respect to supervisory, compliance or other regulatory deficiencies, which could subject us to additional liability, including penalties, and restrictions on our business activities. among other things, these restrictions could limit our ability to make investments, complete acquisitions, expand into new business lines, pay dividends and/or engage in share repurchases. see item 1 regulation of this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk. changes in requirements relating to the standard of conduct for broker-dealers applicable under state law may adversely affect our businesses. in april 2016, the dol issued its final rule defining the term fiduciary and related exemptions in the context of erisa and retirement accounts. on june 21, 2018, the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit court issued an order vacating the dol rule and related exemptions. we dedicated significant resources to interpret and implement policies to comply with the dol rule and continue to evaluate the solutions available to retirement accounts, with additional changes possible. while the overall impact of the recently vacated dol rule may have ultimately been adverse to our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, we may benefit from the changes to systems, processes, and offerings completed for the dol rule in complying with forthcoming regulatory initiatives. in april 2018, the sec proposed regulation best interest, which would require a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities to such customer. 25 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries we anticipate that if a rule imposing heightened standards on broker-dealers is adopted by the sec or fiduciary rules are adopted at the state level, we will be required to incur costs in order to review and possibly modify the compliance plan and approach that we had previously implemented for the now-vacated dol rule. implementation of any rules addressing similar matters may negatively impact our results including the impact of increased costs related to compliance, legal and information technology. numerous regulatory changes and enhanced regulatory and enforcement activity relating to the asset management business may increase our compliance and legal costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. the sec has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of rule 12b-1 under the 1940 act with respect to how mutual funds pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares. the staff of the sec's office of compliance, inspections and examinations has indicated that it is reviewing the use of fund assets to pay for fees to sub-transfer agents and sub-administrators for services that may be deemed to be distribution-related. any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years. as these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, their impact cannot be fully ascertained at this time. as this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries, which have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers. as some of our wholly owned subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the sec, increased regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in additional operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. it is not possible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that have been or may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. conformance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business, including our product and service offerings. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have taken regulatory actions impacting the investment management industry, and may continue to do so including expanding current (or enacting new) standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. for example, several states and municipalities in the u.s. have adopted pay-to-play rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees. such pay-to-play rules could affect the profitability of that portion of our business. the use of soft dollars, where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may be limited or modified in the future. a substantial portion of the research relied on by our investment management business in the investment decision-making process is generated internally by our investment analysts and external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars. this external research is generally used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services. if the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these additional costs. new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products, including additional recordkeeping and disclosure requirements, may impact our asset management business and result in increased costs. failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to rjf, rj bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business. rjf and rj bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by various federal regulators in the u.s. and, accordingly, must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. the capital amounts and classification for both rjf and rj bank are also subject to qualitative judgments by u.s. federal regulators based on components of our capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rjf and rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted assets, tier 1 capital to average assets and capital conservation buffers (as defined in the regulations). failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory (and potentially additional discretionary) actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either rjf or rj bank's operations and financial condition. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and finra's net capital rule, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital that a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below certain thresholds. in addition, our canada-based 26 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction by iiroc. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds that rjf needs to make payments on any such obligations. see note 21 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. the basel iii regulatory capital standards impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our profitability. in july 2013, the fed, the occ and the fdic released final u.s. basel iii rules, which implemented the global regulatory capital reforms of basel iii and certain changes required by the dodd-frank act. the u.s. basel iii rules increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establish a capital conservation buffer and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. we became subject to the requirements under the final u.s. basel iii rules as of january 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for several of its provisions, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. the increased capital requirements stipulated under the u.s. basel iii rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. as a financial holding company, rjf's liquidity depends on payments from its subsidiaries, which may be subject to regulatory restrictions. rjf is a financial holding company and therefore depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations, including its debt service obligations. rjf's subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to prevent or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to rjf. rjf's broker-dealers and bank subsidiary are limited in their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and are subject to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as limitations on their ability to use funds deposited with them in broker or bank accounts to fund their businesses. these requirements may hinder rjf's ability to access funds from its subsidiaries. rjf may also become subject to a prohibition or limitations on its ability to pay dividends or repurchase its common stock. the federal banking regulators, including the occ, the fed and the fdic, as well as the sec (through finra) have the authority and under certain circumstances, the obligation, to limit or prohibit dividend payments and stock repurchases by the banking organizations they supervise, including rjf and its bank subsidiaries. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources of this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. rj bank is subject to the community reinvestment act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties. the cra, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair housing act and other u.s. federal fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. the u.s. department of justice and other federal agencies, including the cfpb, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. an unfavorable cra rating or a successful challenge to an institution's performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil monetary penalties, injunctive relief, and the imposition of restrictions on mergers, acquisitions and expansion activity. private parties may also have the ability to challenge a financial institution's performance under fair lending laws by bringing private class action litigation. the occ has requested comment on ways to modernize the regulations that implement the cra for national banks, such as rj bank. any revisions to the regulations that implement the cra may negatively impact our business, including through increased costs related to compliance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this form 10-k for our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 75 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 16 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the following sections, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. the list of risk factors provided in the following sections is not exhaustive; there may be factors not discussed in the following sections or of this form 10-k that adversely impact our results of operations, harm our reputation or inhibit our ability to generate new business prospects. risks related to our business and industry damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, investors, financial advisors and other associates. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues may include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, including appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity and privacy, record-keeping, and sales and trading practices. in addition, the failure to sell securities we have underwritten at anticipated price levels and the proper identification of the legal, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products could also give rise to reputational risk. failure to maintain appropriate service and quality standards, or a failure or perceived failure to treat clients fairly can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and reputational harm. negative publicity about us, whether or not true, may also harm our reputation. we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including economic output levels, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, prices of commodities, consumer confidence levels, international trade policy, and fiscal and monetary policy. for example, fed policies determine, in large part, the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies also can decrease materially the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. macroeconomic conditions also may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. while we have experienced an operating environment that has been favorable for many of our businesses in recent years, if we were to experience a period of sustained downturn in the securities markets, a return to very low levels of short-term interest rates, credit market dislocations, reductions in the value of real estate, an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, and other negative market factors, our revenues could be significantly impaired. periods of reduced revenue and other losses could lead to reduced profitability because certain of our expenses, including, but not limited to, our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and our ability to reduce them over short time periods is limited. u.s. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in other parts of the world. concerns about the e.u., including the u.k.'s notice to the european council of its decision to exit the e.u. ( brexit ) and the stability of the e.u.'s sovereign debt, have caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally. continued uncertainties loom over the future of the u.k.'s relationship with the e.u., including timing of withdrawal, the nature of any transition, implementation or successor arrangements, and future trading arrangements between the u.k. and the e.u. in order to prepare for brexit, we are taking steps to make certain changes to our european operations in an effort to ensure that we can continue to provide cross-border services in e.u. member states without the need for separate regulatory authorizations in each member state. there is also continued uncertainty regarding the outcome of the e.u.'s financial support programs. it is possible that other e.u. member states may experience financial troubles in the future, or may 16 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries choose to follow the u.k.'s lead and leave the e.u. any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. we may be impacted by budget pressures affecting u.s. state and local governments, as well as negative trends in the housing and labor markets. investor concerns regarding these trends could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and, in turn, reduce our fixed income investment banking revenues. in addition, such factors could potentially have an adverse effect on the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio. rj bank is affected primarily by economic conditions in north america. market conditions in the u.s. and canada can be assessed through the following metrics: the level and volatility of interest rates; unemployment and under-employment rates; real estate prices; consumer confidence levels and changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. deterioration of market conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. our inability to maintain adequate liquidity or to easily access credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, such as limiting our recruiting of additional financial advisors, limiting lending, selling assets at unfavorable prices, and cutting or eliminating dividend payments. our liquidity could be negatively affected by: the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings; liquidity or capital requirements applicable to our subsidiaries that may prevent us from upstreaming cash to the parent company; limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries; diminished access to the capital markets for rjf; and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to prohibitions or limitations on our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase our stock. certain of our regulators have the authority, and under certain circumstances, the duty, to prohibit or to limit dividend payments by regulated subsidiaries to their parent. the availability of financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on various factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector and our credit ratings. our cost of capital and the availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease to provide, funding to borrowers as a result of future concerns over the strength of specific counterparties, as well as the stability of markets generally. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their obligations to us due to numerous causes, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failure, among others. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers' market-making and underwriting businesses, which exposes us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold certain securities, loans and derivatives as part of our trading operations. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in losses. we borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and/or resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits, as well as by evaluating collateral and transaction levels on a recurring basis. significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to widespread concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure. we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. 17 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals, including through offering c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and other loans generally collateralized by securities. we also incur credit risk through our investments. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, or geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, acts of terrorism, severe weather events or other adverse economic events, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our securities. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk. we are exposed to market risk, including interest rate risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, interest rate changes could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. interest rate changes could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread and an increase in fees received on our multi-bank deposit sweep program. conversely, in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and private equity investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity. our private equity investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, if these companies go public and the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk. a significant decline in our domestic client cash balances could negatively impact our net revenues and/or our ability to fund rj bank's growth. we rely heavily on bank deposits to fund rj bank's asset growth. the majority of rj bank's deposits are primarily driven by the rjbdp, a multi-bank sweep program in which pcg clients' cash deposits in their accounts are swept into fdic-insurance interest-bearing accounts at rj bank and various third-party banks. the rjbdp is a source of relatively low-cost, stable deposits. a significant 18 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries reduction in our domestic clients' cash balances, a change in the allocation of that cash between rj bank and third-party banks, or a transfer of cash away from the firm, could significantly impact the bank's ability to continue growing earnings assets and/or require the bank to use higher-cost deposit sources to grow earnings assets. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts, and asset management fees. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual fund and annuity companies. the asset management fees we are paid are dependent upon the value of client assets in fee-based accounts in our pcg segment, as well as aum in our asset management segment. the value of our fee-based assets and aum is impacted by market fluctuations and inflows or outflows of assets. as a result of a shift by our pcg clients to fee-based accounts from traditional transaction-based accounts, a larger portion of our client assets are more directly impacted by market movements. therefore, in periods of declining market values, the values of fee-based accounts and aum may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our revenues. in addition, below-market investment performance by our funds, portfolio managers or financial advisors could result in reputational damage that might cause outflows or make it more difficult to attract new investors into our asset management products and thus further impact our business and financial condition. our asset management fees may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition and the renegotiation of contracts. in addition, the market environment in recent years has resulted in a shift to passive investment products, which generate lower fees than actively managed products. a continued trend toward passive investments or changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition. our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings in which we are involved. from time to time as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions, despite any risk mitigation policies, could impact our financial results. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. despite risk mitigation policies, we may incur losses as a result of positions we hold in connection with our market-making activities. we have made and, to the limited extent permitted by applicable regulations, may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments; however, our current focus is on the divestiture of our existing portfolio. we may be unable to realize our investment objectives if we cannot sell or otherwise dispose of our interests at attractive prices or complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments. in addition, even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. any cyber-attack or other security breach of our technology systems, or those of our clients or other third-party vendors we rely on, could subject us to significant liability and harm our reputation. our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential financial, personal and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber-attacks involving the theft, dissemination and destruction of corporate information or other assets, in some cases as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties. like other financial services firms, we experience malicious cyber activity directed at our computer systems, software, networks and its users on a daily basis. this malicious activity 19 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries includes attempts at unauthorized access, implantation of computer viruses or malware, and denial-of-service attacks. we also experience large volumes of phishing and other forms of social engineering attempted for the purpose of perpetrating fraud against the firm, our associates, our advisors or our clients. we seek to continuously monitor for and nimbly react to any and all such activity, and we develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misuse, misappropriation or corruption. cyber-attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties affiliated with foreign governments, organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals within our firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. although cybersecurity incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, the techniques used in these attacks are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. although we seek to maintain a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, including our cyber threat analytics, data encryption and tokenization technologies, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management program, any one or combination of these controls could fail to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code, and other events that could result in significant liability and damage to our reputation, and have an ongoing impact on the security and stability of our operations. we also rely on numerous third-party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations, and we face similar risks relating to them. while we regularly conduct security assessments on these third-party vendors, we cannot be certain that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach. in addition, in order to access our products and services, our customers may use computers and other devices that are beyond our security control systems. notwithstanding the precautions we take, if a cyber-attack or other information security breach were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, or otherwise cause interruptions in our operations or those of our clients and counterparties, exposing us to liability. as attempted attacks continue to evolve in scope and sophistication, we may be required to expend substantial additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to communicate about cyber-attacks to our customers. though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. additionally, the sec issued guidance in february 2018 stating that, as a public company, we are expected to have controls and procedures that relate to cybersecurity disclosure, and are required to disclose information relating to certain cyber-attacks or other information security breaches in disclosures required to be made under the federal securities laws. further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our financial products and services. further, in light of the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of our clients, partners and counterparties, and the increasing sophistication of malicious actors, a cyber-attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. we expect that any investigation of a cyber-attack would take substantial amounts of time, and that there may be extensive delays before we obtain full and reliable information. during such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all of which would further increase the costs and consequences of such an attack. we may also be subject to liability under various data protection laws. in providing services to clients, we manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. as a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as u.s. federal, state and international laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. if any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. in addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue. potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant. depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. 20 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing operational risks. a continued interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or the failure to effectively update the technology we utilize, could be materially adverse to our business. our businesses rely extensively on data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to: (i) successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our technology systems on a regular basis; (ii) maintain the quality of the information contained in our data processing and communications systems; (iii) address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands; and (iv) retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our technology systems, which could result from events beyond our control, including a systems malfunction or cyber-attack, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other applicable laws and regulatory sanctions. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing operational risks. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities and derivative transactions. as a result of regulatory changes and the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be affected adversely by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. losses arising in connection with counterparty defaults may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our market, credit, operational, liquidity and legal and regulatory compliance risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be effective. while we use limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot always anticipate unforeseen economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. our risk management methods may not predict future risk exposures effectively. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate or may have limited predictive value. a failure to manage our growth adequately, including growth in the products or services we offer, or to manage our risk effectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. financial services firms are subject to numerous actual or perceived conflicts of interest, which are routinely examined by u.s. federal and state regulators and sros such as finra and are often used as the basis for legal liability by plaintiffs in actions against us. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. management of potential 21 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities. a perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest adequately could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause result in material harm to our business and financial condition. for more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management in this report. we continue to experience pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. we continue to experience pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we experience pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, partially due to the industry trend toward the separate payment for research and execution services. our trading margins have been further compressed by the use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive pressure. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. recently, certain competitors have reduced or eliminated commissions for self-directed trading, and we expect that others may follow suit. this trend will impact certain transaction-related fees we charge in pcg, but at this time we do not expect the impact to be material. we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), and location and reputation in relevant markets. over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see the section titled competition of item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors. we compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. for example, recently several commercial firms and other non-traditional competitors have applied for banking licenses or have entered into partnerships with banks to provide banking services. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms and hedge funds, among others. this competition could cause our business to suffer. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. the inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, we may incur substantial expenditures to keep pace with the constant changes and enhancements being made in technology. our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business. our ability to develop and retain our clients depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our senior professionals, members of our executive committees, as well as employees and financial advisors. to compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. turnover in the financial services industry is high. the cost of recruiting and retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably. financial industry employers are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as in a prospective employee's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attract and retain qualified personnel. to the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees, which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are not within our target range. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in 22 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. if we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. if we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may work for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential employees who work for our competitors from joining us. certain of our competitors have withdrawn from the protocol for broker recruiting ( protocol ), a voluntary agreement among over 1,800 firms that governs, among other things, the client information that financial advisors may take with them when they affiliate with a new firm. the ability to bring such customer data to a new broker-dealer generally means that the financial advisor is better able to move client account balances to his or her new firm. it is possible that other competitors will similarly withdraw from the protocol. if the broker-dealers from whom we recruit new financial advisors prevent, or significantly limit, the transfer of client data, our recruiting efforts may be adversely affected and we could continue to experience claims against us relating to our recruiting efforts. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and financial condition. if our credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our client relationships. such a change in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. we may not be able to obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions. a credit rating downgrade would also result in the firm incurring a higher facility fee on its $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the credit facility ), in addition to triggering a higher interest rate applicable to any borrowings outstanding on the line as of and subsequent to such downgrade (see note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k for information on the credit facility). business growth could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks. we continue to grow, including through acquisitions and through our recruiting efforts. integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. we may incur significant expense in connection with expanding our existing businesses, recruiting financial advisors, making strategic acquisitions or investments, or making investments in our control functions such as compliance and supervision. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues derived from such investments or growth. expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves hiring additional personnel to address these procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate or not adhered to with respect to our expanded business or any new business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. moreover, to the extent we pursue acquisitions we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. we may be unable to integrate any acquired business into our existing business successfully. difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise capital or borrow funds in order to finance an acquisition, which could result in dilution or increased leverage. we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or perhaps at all. 23 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. there is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. for example, our banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. our employees interact with clients, customers and counterparties on an ongoing basis. all employees are expected to exhibit the behaviors and ethics that are reflected in our framework of principles, policies and technology to protect both our own information as well as that of our clients. it is not possible to deter or prevent every instance of associate misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity will likely not be effective in all cases. if our associates improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to future regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. we are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over our assets under management. in addition, our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management. the violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely affect our clients and us. it is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective. if our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. we are exposed to litigation risks, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and prospects. many aspects of our business involve substantial risk of liability. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations primarily involving claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our associates could result in substantial liability. in challenging market conditions, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased. litigation risks include potential liability under securities laws or other laws for: alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions; issues related to our investment recommendations, including the suitability of such recommendations or potential concentration of investments; the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions; contractual issues; employment claims; and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial impact or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and future business prospects. in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see item 3 legal proceedings of this report for a discussion of our legal matters. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in real estate and credit markets may increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, derivatives, available-for-sale securities, certain loans and investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means, which ultimately rely to some degree on our subjective judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no directly observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective and, consequently, based on estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment, as well as declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. 24 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) and the sec have at times revised the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. the fasb has issued several new accounting standards in recent years, including on the topics of credit losses and leases, and the federal banking regulators have released implementation guidance and proposed implementation rules for some of these new standards. in particular, the new credit losses standard will replace multiple existing impairment models, including the replacement of the incurred loss model for loans with an expected loss model. we are evaluating the potential impact that the adoption of these standards and the proposed regulatory implementation rules will have on our financial position, results of operations as well as our regulatory capital. for further discussion of some of our significant accounting estimates, policies and standards, see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting estimates of this report and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. certain of our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted out of our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee locations and our information systems processing to be conducted out of our information technology data center in the denver, colorado area, our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. as previously discussed, weather events could also adversely impact certain loans within rj bank's portfolio. refer to item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this form 10-k for a discussion of our operational risk management. we are exposed to risks from international markets. we do business in other parts of the world and as a result, are exposed to risks, including market, litigation and regulatory compliance risks. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, less established regulatory regimes, changes in governmental or central bank policies, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative, economic and political developments. action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and our reputation. we also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-u.s. jurisdictions. revenues from trading non-u.s. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the previously mentioned factors. the expected phase-out of libor could negatively impact our net interest income and require significant operational work. the fca, which regulates the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), has announced that it will not compel panel banks to contribute to libor after 2021. it is likely that banks will not continue to provide submissions for the calculation of libor after 2021 and possibly prior to then. it is expected that a transition away from the widespread use of libor to alternative rates will occur over the course of the next few years. although the full impact of transition remains unclear, this change may have an adverse impact on the value of, return on and trading markets for a broad array of financial products, including any libor-based securities, loans and derivatives that are included in our financial assets and liabilities. if libor is discontinued after 2021 as expected, there will be uncertainty or differences in the calculation of the applicable interest rate or payment amount depending on the terms of the governing instruments. there will be significant work required to transition to using the new benchmark rates and implement necessary changes to our systems, processes and models . this may impact our existing transaction data, products , systems, operations, and valuation processes. the calculation of interest rates under the replacement benchmarks could also impact our net interest income and account and service fees . in addition, libor may perform differently during the phase-out period than in the past which could result in lower interest payments and a reduction in the value of certain assets. we are assessing the impact of the transition; however, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of the transition at this time. 25 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries we are exposed to risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks. we have elected to self-insure our workers compensation, errors and omissions liability and our employee-related health care benefit plans. we have self-insured retention risk related to our property and casualty, and general liability benefit plans. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage appropriate to our risk assessment, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, claims associated with risks we have retained either through our self-insurance retention or by self-insuring, may exceed our recorded reserves which could negatively impact future earnings. insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. risks related to our regulatory environment financial services firms are highly regulated and the increased regulatory scrutiny over the last several years may increase the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. over the last several years, financial services firms have been operating in an evolving regulatory environment. the industry has experienced an extended period of significant change in laws and regulations governing the financial services industry, as well as increased scrutiny from various regulators, including the sec, the fed, the occ and the cfpb, in addition to stock exchanges, finra and state attorneys general. for example, the dodd-frank act resulted in sweeping changes to the regulatory regime, including a significant increase in the supervision and regulation of the financial services industry. penalties and fines imposed by regulatory authorities have increased substantially in recent years. we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. existing and new laws and regulations could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of our assets, require us to alter at least some of our business practices, impose additional compliance costs, and otherwise adversely affect our businesses. there is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain consolidated asset thresholds established under the dodd-frank act, which have the effect of imposing enhanced standards and requirements on larger institutions. these include, but are not limited to, rj bank's oversight by the cfpb. any action taken by the cfpb could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make such products and services less attractive, impose additional compliance measures, or result in fines, penalties or required remediation. we are also required to comply with the volcker rule's provisions. although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of proprietary trading, due to our underwriting and market-making activities and our investments in covered funds, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased operational and compliance costs and changes to our private equity investments. any changes to regulations or changes to the supervisory approach may also result in increased compliance costs to the extent we are required to modify our existing compliance policies, procedures and practices. broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including, but not limited to: sales and trading methods; trade practices among broker-dealers; use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities; capital structure of securities firms; anti-money laundering efforts; recordkeeping; and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. any violation of these laws or regulations could subject us to the following events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects: civil and criminal liability; sanctions, which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers; the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors; censures; fines; or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. there is no assurance that regulators will be satisfied with the policies and procedures implemented by rjf and its subsidiaries. in addition, from time to time, rjf and its subsidiaries may become subject to additional findings with respect to supervisory, compliance or other regulatory deficiencies, which could subject 26 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries us to additional liability, including penalties, and restrictions on our business activities. among other things, these restrictions could limit our ability to make investments, complete acquisitions, expand into new business lines, pay dividends and/or engage in share repurchases. see item 1 regulation of this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this report regarding our approaches to managing compliance risk. changes in requirements relating to the standard of conduct for broker-dealers applicable under federal and state law may adversely affect our businesses. in june 2019, the sec adopted a package of rulemakings and interpretations related to the provision of advice by broker-dealers and investment advisers, including regulation best interest. among other things, regulation best interest requires a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation to that customer of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities. the regulation will impose heightened standards on broker-dealers and we anticipate incurring additional costs in order to review and modify our policies and procedures, as well as associated supervisory and compliance controls. in addition to the sec, various states have proposed, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations seeking to impose new standards of conduct on broker-dealers that, as written, differ from the sec's new regulations and may lead to additional implementation costs if adopted. implementation of the new sec regulations, as well as any new state rules that are adopted addressing similar matters, may negatively impact our results including the impact of increased costs related to compliance, legal, operations and information technology. numerous regulatory changes and enhanced regulatory and enforcement activity relating to our investment management activities may increase our compliance and legal costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. investment management businesses have been affected by a number of highly publicized regulatory matters, which have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers. for example, the sec initiated enforcement actions against a number of broker-dealers, including raymond james, related to mutual fund share classes offered to their clients and fees paid for the distribution of mutual fund shares. as broker-dealers review and potentially make changes to the availability of mutual funds and mutual fund share classes available on their distribution platforms, such changes could affect our profitability. as some of our wholly owned subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the sec, increased regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in additional operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. it is not possible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that have been or may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. conformance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business, including our product and service offerings. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have taken regulatory actions impacting the investment management industry, and may continue to do so including expanding current (or enacting new) standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. for example, several states and municipalities in the u.s. have adopted pay-to-play rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees. such pay-to-play rules could affect the profitability of that portion of our business. the use of soft dollars, where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may be limited or modified in the future. the research relied on in our investment management activities in the investment decision-making process is typically generated internally by our investment analysts or external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars. this external research is generally used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services. if the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these additional costs. new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products, including additional recordkeeping and disclosure requirements, may impact our asset management business and result in increased costs. 27 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to rjf, rj bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business. rjf and rj bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by various federal regulators in the u.s. and, accordingly, must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory guidelines. the capital amounts and classification for both rjf and rj bank are also subject to qualitative judgments by u.s. federal regulators based on components of our capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors. quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require rjf and rj bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of common equity tier 1, tier 1 and total capital to risk-weighted assets, tier 1 capital to average assets and capital conservation buffers (as defined in the regulations). failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory (and potentially additional discretionary) actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either rjf or rj bank's operations and financial condition. we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and finra's net capital rule, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. the uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital that a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. finra may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below certain thresholds. in addition, our canada-based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction by iiroc. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds that rjf needs to make payments on any of its obligations. see note 22 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. the basel iii regulatory capital standards impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our profitability. the fed, the occ and the fdic have implemented the global regulatory capital reforms of basel iii and certain changes required by the dodd-frank act. the u.s. basel iii rules increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establish a capital conservation buffer and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. we became subject to the requirements under the final u.s. basel iii rules as of january 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for several of its provisions, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. the increased capital requirements stipulated under the u.s. basel iii rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. as a financial holding company, rjf's liquidity depends on payments from its subsidiaries, which may be subject to regulatory restrictions. rjf is a financial holding company and therefore depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations, including its debt service obligations. rjf's subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to prevent or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to rjf. rjf's broker-dealers and bank subsidiary are limited in their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and are subject to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as limitations on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. these requirements may hinder rjf's ability to access funds from its subsidiaries. rjf may also become subject to a prohibition or limitations on its ability to pay dividends or repurchase its common stock. the federal banking regulators, including the occ, the fed and the fdic, as well as the sec (through finra) have the authority and under certain circumstances, the obligation, to limit or prohibit dividend payments and stock repurchases by the banking organizations they supervise, including rjf and its bank subsidiaries. see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources of this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk. rj bank is subject to the community reinvestment act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties. the cra, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair housing act and other u.s. federal fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. the u.s. department of justice and other federal agencies, including the cfpb, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. an unfavorable cra rating or a successful challenge to an institution's performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required 28 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries payment of damages and civil monetary penalties, injunctive relief, and the imposition of restrictions on mergers, acquisitions and expansion activity. private parties may also have the ability to challenge a financial institution's performance under fair lending laws by bringing private class action litigation. cra regulations are currently being evaluated by regulators. any revisions to the regulations that implement the cra may negatively impact our business, including through increased costs related to compliance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this form 10-k for our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 70 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiariesrisk factors 19 risk factors our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the following sections, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock. the list of risk factors provided in the following sections is not exhaustive; there may be other factors that adversely impact our results of operations, harm our reputation or inhibit our ability to generate new business prospects. the following sections should be read in conjunction with item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in item 8 - financial statements and supplementary data of this annual report on form 10-k. in particular, see item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk and item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management for additional information on our exposure and how we monitor and manage our market, credit, operational, compliance and certain other risks. risks related to our business and industry the worldwide covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the worldwide covid-19 pandemic and related government-imposed and other measures intended to control the spread of the disease, including restrictions on travel and the conduct of business, such as stay-at-home orders, quarantines, travel bans, border closings, business closures and other similar measures, have had a significant impact on global economic conditions and have negatively impacted certain aspects of our business and results of operations, and may continue to do so in the future. although certain economic conditions showed signs of improvement toward the end of fiscal 2020, certain of the impacts of the covid-19 pandemic may continue to affect our results in the future, including: lower net interest income and rjbdp fees from third-party banks due to a significant reduction by the federal reserve of its benchmark short-term interest rate in response to the pandemic; volatility in our brokerage revenues and investment banking revenues due to market uncertainty caused by the pandemic; increased credit risk, particularly with regard to industries most vulnerable to the pandemic (e.g., airline, restaurant, gaming, entertainment/leisure and energy), which may continue to result in an elevated bank loan loss provision and charge-offs. in addition, should market conditions deteriorate further, or if there is a decline in equity markets similar to that experienced during our fiscal 2020 second quarter, the value of our clients' assets and certain of our investments would also be negatively affected. we may also continue to experience business disruptions as a result of the continued spread of covid-19, resulting from restrictions on our employees' ability to travel, as well as temporary partial or full closures of our facilities and the facilities of our customers, suppliers, or other vendors. we often recruit skilled professionals by visiting their offices or having them visit our offices. although we have transitioned such visits to virtual meetings, continued travel restrictions or other disruptions that prevent us from meeting with professional prospects may adversely impact our ability to recruit such professional prospects. further, the increased availability of remote working arrangements in response to the pandemic may intensify competition for prospective new associates and impair our ability to retain current associates. it may also become more difficult to maintain our distinctive corporate culture, which is in part dependent on a certain level of in-person interaction, in the face of a prolonged, large-scale industry shift to remote work. while we maintain contingency plans for events such as pandemic outbreaks, the further spread of covid-19 or a similar contagious disease could also impair the effectiveness of our executive officers or other associates who are necessary to conduct our business. in addition, any continued spread of covid-19 or new outbreak could harm the operations of third-party service providers who perform critical services for our business. if covid-19, or another highly infectious or contagious disease, continues to spread or the response to contain it is unsuccessful, we will likely experience further adverse effects on our business, financial condition, liquidity, and results of operations. a prolonged period of economic deterioration could ultimately result in impairment of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. in addition, if conditions in financial markets further deteriorate as a result of the pandemic, our access to capital and other sources of funding may become constrained, which may require us to restructure debt or obtain additional financing on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. the extent of any of the previously-described effects on our business will depend on future developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the duration of the covid-19 pandemic, the development, distribution, and acceptance of an effective vaccine, the measures taken by various governmental authorities in response to the pandemic and the possible further impacts on the global economy. 19 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries damage to our reputation could damage our businesses. maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, investors, and associates. if we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects. these issues may include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this item 1a, including appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity and privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and associate misconduct. in addition, the failure to sell securities we have underwritten at anticipated price levels and the proper identification of the risks inherent in the products and services we offer could also give rise to reputational risk. failure to maintain appropriate service and quality standards or a failure or perceived failure to treat clients fairly can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and reputational harm. negative publicity about us, whether or not true, may also harm our reputation. further, failures at other large financial institutions or other market participants, regardless of whether they relate to our activities, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the financial system in general. we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets. we are engaged in various financial services businesses. as such, we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, as well as economic output levels, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, prices of commodities, consumer confidence levels, international trade policy, and fiscal and monetary policy. for example, fed policies determine, in large part, the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. the market impact from such policies also can decrease materially the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities, as well as our cash flows, such as those associated with client cash balances. changes in fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict. in addition, our results of operations may be impacted by changes resulting from different political philosophies governing individual and corporate taxation, as well as regulation, which may result from the outcome of the recent federal elections in the u.s. changes in tax law and regulation, or any market uncertainty caused by a change in the political environment, may negatively affect our business. macroeconomic conditions may also directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, financial instrument valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits. in recent years, we experienced an operating environment that was favorable for many of our businesses, characterized by rising equity markets and higher levels of interest rates. however, the recent significant reduction by the fed of its benchmark short-term interest rate, including to ameliorate the macroeconomic effects of the covid-19 pandemic, has had a significant negative impact on our results, as we have certain assets and liabilities, primarily held in our pcg, rj bank and other segments, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates. fees we earn from third-party banks on client cash balances swept to such banks as part of the rjbdp are also sensitive to changes in interest rates. these market interest rate declines will continue to negatively impact our results and cash flows in future quarters. in addition, if we were to experience a period of sustained downturn in the securities markets, credit market dislocations, reductions in the value of real estate, further increases in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, or other negative market factors, including from the continuing impact of the covid-19 pandemic, our revenues could be adversely impacted. market volatility could also cause clients to move their investments to lower margin products, or withdraw them, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. we could also experience a material reduction in trading volume and lower securities prices in times of market uncertainty, which would result in lower brokerage revenues, including losses on firm inventory. conversely, periods of severe market volatility may result in a significantly higher level of transactions and other activity which may cause operational challenges that may result in losses. these can include, but are not limited to, trade errors, failed transaction settlements, late collateral calls to borrowers and counterparties, or interruptions to our system processing. the fair values of certain of our investments could also be negatively impacted, resulting in additional unrealized or realized losses on such investments. periods of reduced revenue and other losses could lead to reduced profitability because certain of our expenses, including our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses, are fixed, and our ability to reduce them over short time periods is limited. u.s. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in other parts of the world. our businesses and revenues derived from non-u.s. operations may also be subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, less established regulatory regimes, changes in governmental or central bank policies, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative, economic and 20 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries political developments. concerns about brexit and the stability of the e.u.'s sovereign debt could cause uncertainty and disruption in financial markets globally. continued uncertainties loom over the future of the u.k.'s relationship with the e.u., including future trading arrangements between the u.k. and the e.u., following the expiration of the transition period on december 31, 2020. during the transition period of brexit, we are taking steps to make certain changes to our european operations in an effort to ensure that, where possible, we can continue to provide cross-border services in e.u. member states without the need for separate regulatory authorizations in each member state. there is also continued uncertainty regarding the outcome of the e.u.'s financial support programs. it is possible that other e.u. member states may experience financial troubles in the future, or may choose to follow the u.k.'s lead and leave the e.u. any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. we may be negatively impacted by budget pressures affecting u.s. state and local governments, as well as negative trends in the housing and labor markets, including those resulting directly or indirectly from the covid-19 pandemic. investor concerns regarding these trends could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and, in turn, reduce our debt underwriting revenues. in addition, such factors could potentially have an adverse effect on the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading inventory. rj bank is affected primarily by economic conditions in north america. market conditions in the u.s. and canada can be assessed through the following metrics: the level and volatility of interest rates; unemployment and under-employment rates; real estate prices; consumer confidence levels and changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others. deterioration of market conditions, such as those we have experienced due to the covid-19 pandemic, have and could continue to diminish loan demand, which may result in sales of loans at unattractive prices in order to reduce risk in our loan portfolio, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance, and result in higher loan loss provisions and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings. lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. our inability to maintain adequate liquidity or to easily access credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition. if liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, such as limiting our recruiting of additional financial advisors, limiting lending, selling assets at unfavorable prices, and cutting or eliminating dividend payments. our liquidity could be negatively affected by: the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings; liquidity or capital requirements applicable to our subsidiaries that may prevent us from distributing cash to the parent company; limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries; diminished access to the capital markets for rjf; and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions. furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to prohibitions or limitations on our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase our stock. certain of our regulators have the authority, and under certain circumstances, the duty, to prohibit or to limit dividend payments by regulated subsidiaries to their parent company. the availability of financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on various factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector, and our credit ratings. our cost of capital and the availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease to provide, funding to borrowers as a result of future concerns over the strength of specific counterparties, as well as the stability of markets generally. we are exposed to credit risk. we are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their obligations to us due to numerous causes, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failure, among others. this risk has been and may further be exacerbated by the effects of the covid-19 pandemic. we actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers' trading and underwriting businesses, which exposes us to credit risk. although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date. we also hold certain securities, loans and derivatives as part of our trading operations. deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivatives could result in losses. we borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and/or resell securities as part of investing and financing activities. a sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments. we manage the risk 21 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits, as well as by evaluating collateral and transaction levels on a recurring basis. significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to widespread concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk. in addition, we permit our clients to purchase securities on margin. during periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness. if clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions. this may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults. we deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients. a failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance. we also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals, including through offering c&amp;i loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, sbl and other loans. we also incur credit risk through our investments. our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, or geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions, such as those most impacted by the covid-19 pandemic, including the airline, restaurant, gaming, entertainment/leisure and energy sectors. the deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, acts of terrorism, severe weather events or other adverse economic events, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital. declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in rj bank's portfolio, sell loans at unattractive prices, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our securities. credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the u.s. economy. we are exposed to market risk, including interest rate risk. we are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions. market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. for example, interest rate changes could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings. interest rate changes could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. moreover, while there is no indication currently that the fed plans to reduce its targeted fed funds rate to a negative rate, if such a policy were to be adopted the cost to hold both firm and client deposits would have an adverse impact on our profitability. in our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread and an increase in servicing fees received on cash swept to third-party banks as part of the rjbdp, our multi-bank sweep program. conversely, in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread and lower rjbdp fees from third-party banks. if we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and private equity investments. market conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer. in addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations. the inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity. our private equity investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. the value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our investments can be volatile and difficult to predict. when, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, if these companies go public and the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. 22 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries significant volatility in our domestic clients' cash balances could negatively impact our net revenues and/or our ability to fund rj bank's growth and may impact our regulatory ratios. the majority of rj bank's deposits are primarily driven by the rjbdp, our multi-bank sweep program in which pcg clients' cash deposits in their brokerage accounts are swept into fdic-insured, interest-bearing deposit accounts at rj bank and various third-party banks. the rjbdp is a source of relatively low-cost, stable deposits for rj bank and we rely heavily on the rjbdp to fund rj bank's asset growth. a significant reduction in pcg clients' cash balances, a change in the allocation of that cash between rj bank and third-party banks within the rjbdp, or a transfer of cash away from the firm could significantly impact rj bank's ability to continue growing interest-earning assets and/or require rj bank to use higher-cost deposit sources to grow interest-earning assets. the rjbdp also generates service fee income from third-party banks related to the deposits they receive through their participation in the rjbdp. if pcg clients were to materially increase their cash balances at a time when third-party bank demand for rjbdp deposits has been largely met, our ability to generate meaningful revenues from the placement of these incremental deposits would be adversely affected. in addition, our inability to deploy client cash to third-party banks through rjbdp would require us to retain more cash at rj bank or in our client interest program, both of which may cause a significant increase in our assets. such an increase in our assets may negatively impact certain of our regulatory ratios. our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts, and asset management fees. a large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities. changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition. in addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual fund and annuity companies. the asset management fees we are paid are dependent upon the value of client assets in fee-based accounts in our pcg segment, as well as aum in our asset management segment. the value of our fee-based assets and aum is impacted by market fluctuations and inflows or outflows of assets. as our pcg clients increasingly show a preference for fee-based accounts over traditional transaction-based accounts, a larger portion of our client assets are more directly impacted by market movements. therefore, in periods of declining market values, the values of fee-based accounts and aum may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our revenues. in addition, below-market investment performance by our funds, portfolio managers or financial advisors could result in reputational damage that might cause outflows or make it more difficult to attract new investors into our asset management products and thus, further impact our business and financial condition. our asset management fees may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition and the renegotiation of contracts. in addition, the market environment in recent years has resulted in a shift to passive investment products, which generate lower fees than actively managed products. a continued trend toward passive investments or changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would negatively affect our revenues, business and financial condition. our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk. we may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels. as an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings in which we are involved. from time to time as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. sudden changes in the value of these positions, despite our risk mitigation policies, could impact our financial results. as a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. despite risk mitigation policies, we may incur losses as a result of positions we hold in connection with our trading activities. we have made and, to the limited extent permitted by applicable regulations, may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments. we may be unable to realize our investment objectives if we cannot sell or otherwise dispose of our interests at attractive prices or complete a desirable exit strategy. in particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions. it could take a substantial period of 23 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments. in addition, even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. any cyber-attack or other security breach of our technology systems, or those of our clients or other third-party vendors we rely on, could subject us to significant liability and harm our reputation. our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential financial, personal and other information in our computer systems and networks. there have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber-attacks involving the theft, dissemination and destruction of corporate information or other assets, in some cases as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties. like other financial services firms, we experience malicious cyber activity directed at our computer systems, software, networks and its users on a daily basis. this malicious activity includes attempts at unauthorized access, implantation of computer viruses or malware, and denial-of-service attacks. we also experience large volumes of phishing and other forms of social engineering attempted for the purpose of perpetrating fraud against the firm, our associates, or our clients. additionally, like many large enterprises, since mid-march 2020, we have shifted the majority of our associates to remote work arrangements in response to the covid-19 pandemic. this change in our operating model has enabled us to successfully continue business operations, but also introduces potential new vulnerabilities to cyber threats. we seek to continuously monitor for and nimbly react to any and all such malicious cyber activity, and we develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misuse, misappropriation or corruption. cyber-attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties affiliated with foreign governments, organized crime or terrorist organizations. third parties may also attempt to place individuals within our firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent. although cybersecurity incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches. however, the techniques used in these attacks are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. although we seek to maintain a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, including our cyber threat analytics, data encryption and tokenization technologies, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management programs, any one or combination of these controls could fail to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, equipment failure, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code, and other events that could result in significant liability and damage to our reputation, and have an ongoing impact on the security and stability of our operations. we also rely on numerous third-party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations, and we face similar risks relating to them. while we regularly conduct security assessments on these third-party vendors, we cannot be certain that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach. in addition, in order to access our products and services, our customers may use computers and other devices that are beyond our security control systems. notwithstanding the precautions we take, if a cyber-attack or other information security breach were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, or otherwise cause interruptions in our operations or those of our clients and counterparties, exposing us to liability. as attempted attacks continue to evolve in scope and sophistication, we may be required to expend substantial additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to communicate about cyber-attacks to our customers. though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies. a technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators. further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our financial products and services. further, in light of the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of our clients, partners and counterparties, the increasing sophistication of malicious actors, and our remote work environment in response to the covid-19 pandemic, a cyber-attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. we expect that any investigation of a cyber-attack would take substantial amounts of time, and that there may be extensive delays before we obtain full and reliable 24 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries information. during such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all of which would further increase the costs and consequences of such an attack. we may also be subject to liability under various data protection laws. in providing services to clients, we manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. as a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as u.s. federal, state and international laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. if any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution. in addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue. potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant. depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. a continued interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or the failure to effectively update the technology we utilize, could be materially adverse to our business. our businesses rely extensively on data processing and communications systems. in addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business. introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis. there are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards. our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to: (i) successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our technology systems on a regular basis; (ii) maintain the quality of the information contained in our data processing and communications systems; (iii) address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands; and (iv) retain skilled information technology employees. failure of our technology systems, which could result from events beyond our control, including a systems malfunction or cyber-attack, failure by a third-party service provider, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other applicable laws and regulatory sanctions. the soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us. we face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities and derivative transactions. as a result of regulatory changes and the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be affected adversely by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services institutions are interdependent as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. losses arising in connection with counterparty defaults may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 25 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. we seek to manage, monitor and control our market, credit, operational, liquidity and legal and regulatory compliance risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be effective. while we use limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot always anticipate unforeseen economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. our risk management methods may not predict future risk exposures effectively. in addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate or may have limited predictive value. a failure to manage our growth adequately, including growth in the products or services we offer, or to manage our risk effectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. financial services firms are subject to numerous actual or perceived conflicts of interest, which are routinely examined by u.s. federal and state regulators and sros such as finra and are often used as the basis for claims for legal liability by plaintiffs in actions against us. our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business. management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities. a perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest adequately could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions. therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could result in material harm to our business and financial condition. we continue to experience pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability. we continue to experience pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading. in the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to price competition and decreased trading margins. in the equity market, we experience pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, partially due to the industry trend toward the separate payment for research and execution services. our trading margins have been further compressed by the shift from high- to low-touch execution services, which has created additional competitive pressure. we believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. we face intense competition. we are engaged in intensely competitive businesses. we compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), and location and reputation in relevant markets. over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. see item 1 - business - competition of this form 10-k for additional information about our competitors. we compete directly with other national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, and investment advisors, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers. in addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market, including financial technology companies, and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms. for example, recently several commercial firms and other non-traditional competitors have applied for banking licenses or have entered into partnerships with banks to provide banking services. we also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms and hedge funds, among others. this competition could cause our business to suffer. to remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. the inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. in addition, we may incur substantial expenditures to keep pace with the constant changes and enhancements being made in technology. our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business. our ability to recruit, serve and retain our clients depends on the reputation, judgment, leadership, business generation capabilities and client service skills of our client-serving professionals, members of our executive committees, as well as 26 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries employees who support revenue-generating professionals and their clients. to compete effectively we must attract, develop, and retain qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue-producing or specialized personnel. competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. turnover in the financial services industry is high. the cost of recruiting and retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry is considerable. financial industry employers are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation. these can be important factors in a current associate's decision to leave us as well as in a prospective associate's decision to join us. as competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attract and retain qualified personnel. to the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our associates, which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional associates at compensation levels that are not within our target range. in particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel. if we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. if we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues. moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. we have been subject to several such claims and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may work for our competitors. some of these claims may result in material litigation. we could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits. such claims could also discourage potential associates who work for our competitors from joining us. we participate in the protocol for broker recruiting ( protocol ), a voluntary agreement among many firms in the industry that governs, among other things, the client information that financial advisors may take with them when they affiliate with a new firm. the ability to bring such customer data to a new broker-dealer generally means that the clients of the financial advisor are more likely to choose to open accounts at the advisor's new firm. participation is voluntary and it is possible that certain of our competitors will withdraw from the protocol. if the broker-dealers from whom we recruit new financial advisors prevent, or significantly limit, the transfer of client data, our recruiting efforts may be adversely affected and we could continue to experience claims against us relating to our recruiting efforts. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and financial condition. if our credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our client relationships. such a change in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability. we may not be able to obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. the impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions. a credit rating downgrade would also result in the firm incurring a higher facility fee on its $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility agreement (the credit facility ), in addition to triggering a higher interest rate applicable to any borrowings outstanding on the line as of and subsequent to such downgrade (see note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k for information on the credit facility). business growth could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks. we continue to grow, including through acquisitions and through our recruiting efforts. integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. we may incur significant expense in connection with expanding our existing businesses, recruiting financial advisors or making strategic acquisitions or investments. our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues derived from such investments or growth. 27 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves hiring additional personnel to address these procedures. to the extent such procedures are not adequate or not adhered to with respect to our expanded business or any new business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. moreover, to the extent we pursue acquisitions, we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. we may be unable to integrate any acquired business into our existing business successfully. difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we may need to raise capital or borrow funds in order to finance an acquisition, which could result in dilution or increased leverage. we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or perhaps at all. associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. there is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. for example, our investment banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. our associates interact with clients, customers and counterparties on an ongoing basis. all associates are expected to exhibit the behaviors and ethics that are reflected in our framework of principles, policies and technology to protect both our own information as well as that of our clients. associate conduct on non business matters, such as social issues, could be inconsistent with the company's policies and ethics and result in reputational harm to our business as a result of their employment or affiliation. if our associates improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to future regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. we are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over our assets under management. in addition, our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management. the violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely affect our clients and us. it is not always possible to deter or prevent every instance of associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. if our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected. we are exposed to litigation risks, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and prospects. many aspects of our business involve substantial risk of liability. we have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations primarily involving claims for damages. the risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. unauthorized or illegal acts of our associates could also result in substantial liability. in challenging market conditions, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have historically increased. litigation risks include potential liability under securities laws or other laws for: alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions; issues related to our investment recommendations, including the suitability of such recommendations or potential concentration of investments; the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions; contractual issues; employment claims; and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions. substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial impact or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and future business prospects. in addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time. the amount of third-party attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations. see item 3 - legal proceedings of this form 10-k for further information about legal matters. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period. such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. one of our most critical estimates is rj bank's allowance for loan losses. at any given point in time, conditions in real estate and credit markets may increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in rj bank's loan portfolio. if management's underlying 28 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses. our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, derivatives, available-for-sale securities, certain loans and investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means, which ultimately rely to some degree on our subjective judgment. some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no directly observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective and, consequently, based on estimation and judgment. in addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment, as well as declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) and the sec have at times revised the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. in addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior-period financial statements. for further discussion of our significant accounting estimates, policies and standards, see item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting estimates and item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - recent accounting developments of this form 10-k and note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions. certain of our principal operations are located in st. petersburg, florida. while we have a business continuity plan that also permits significant operations to be conducted out of remote locations as well as our southfield, michigan and memphis, tennessee corporate offices and our information systems processing to be conducted out of our information technology data center in the denver, colorado area, our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home. in addition, since activating certain aspects of our business continuity plan in response to the covid-19 pandemic to allow nearly all of our associates to work remotely, our associates' ability to relocate to a secondary location in the event of a power outage or other disruption is limited due to the pandemic. as previously mentioned, weather events could also adversely impact certain loans within rj bank's portfolio. the phase-out of libor could negatively impact our net interest income and require significant operational work. the fca, which regulates the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), has announced that it will not compel panel banks to contribute to libor after 2021. it is likely that banks will not continue to provide submissions for the calculation of libor after 2021 and possibly prior to then. the discontinuance of libor has resulted in significant uncertainty regarding the transition to suitable alternative reference rates and could adversely impact our business, operations, and financial results. although the full impact of transition remains unclear, this change may have an adverse impact on the value of, return on and trading markets for a broad array of financial products, including any libor-based securities, loans and derivatives that are included in our financial assets and liabilities. if libor is discontinued after 2021 as expected, there will be uncertainty or differences in the calculation of the applicable interest rate or payment amount depending on the terms of the governing instruments, which may also impact our net interest income and account and service fees. in addition, libor may perform differently during the phase-out period than in the past which could result in lower interest earned on certain assets and a reduction in the value of certain assets. to facilitate an orderly transition away from libor, we have established an enterprise-wide initiative to assess and implement necessary changes to our contracts, systems, processes, documentation, and models . these changes may also impact our existing transaction data, products , internal infrastructure , and valuation processes. we are exposed to risks related to our insurance programs. our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks. we have elected to self-insure our errors and omissions liability and 29 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries our employee-related health care benefit plans. we have self-insured retention risk related to our property and casualty, workers compensation and general liability benefit plans. while we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage appropriate to our risk assessment, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. our business may be negatively affected if our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. in addition, claims associated with risks we have retained either through our self-insurance retention or by self-insuring may exceed our recorded reserves which could negatively impact future earnings. insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business. risks related to our regulatory environment financial services firms are highly regulated and such regulation may increase the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. financial services firms operate in an evolving regulatory environment. the industry has experienced an extended period of significant change in laws and regulations governing the financial services industry, as well as a high degree of scrutiny from various regulators, including the sec, the fed, the occ and the cfpb, in addition to stock exchanges, finra and state attorneys general. for example, the dodd-frank act resulted in sweeping changes to the regulatory regime, including a significant increase in the supervision and regulation of the financial services industry. penalties and fines imposed by regulatory authorities have been substantial in recent years. we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. existing and new laws and regulations could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of our assets, require us to alter at least some of our business practices, impose additional compliance costs, and otherwise adversely affect our businesses. there is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain consolidated asset thresholds established under the dodd-frank act, which have the effect of imposing enhanced standards and requirements on larger institutions. these include, but are not limited to, rj bank's oversight by the cfpb. any action taken by the cfpb could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make such products and services less attractive, impose additional compliance measures, or result in fines, penalties or required remediation. we are also required to comply with the volcker rule's provisions. although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of proprietary trading, due to our underwriting and trading activities and our investments in covered funds, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased operational and compliance costs and changes to our private equity investments. any changes to regulations or changes to the supervisory approach may also result in increased compliance costs to the extent we are required to modify our existing compliance policies, procedures and practices. broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including, but not limited to: sales and trading methods; trade practices among broker-dealers; use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities; capital structure of securities firms; anti-money laundering efforts; recordkeeping; and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. any violation of these laws or regulations could subject us to the following events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects: civil and criminal liability; sanctions, which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers; the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors; censures; fines; or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business. the majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors. legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, we have certain international business operations that are subject to laws, regulations, and standards in the countries in which we operate. any violations of these laws, regulations or standards could subject us to a range of potential regulatory events or outcomes that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects including potential adverse impacts on continued operations in the relevant international jurisdiction. regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. there is no assurance that regulators will be satisfied with the policies and procedures implemented by rjf and its subsidiaries. in addition, from time to time, rjf and its subsidiaries may become subject to additional findings with respect to supervisory, compliance or other regulatory deficiencies, which could subject us to additional liability, including penalties and restrictions on our business activities. among other things, these restrictions could limit our ability to make investments, complete acquisitions, expand into new 30 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries business lines, pay dividends on our common stock and/or engage in share repurchases. see item 1 - business - regulation of this form 10-k for additional information regarding our regulatory environment. changes in requirements relating to the standard of conduct for broker-dealers applicable under federal and state law have increased our costs. in june 2019, the sec adopted a package of rulemakings and interpretations related to the provision of advice by broker-dealers and investment advisers, including regulation best interest. since june 30, 2020, regulation best interest requires, among other things, a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation to that customer of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities. the regulation imposes heightened standards on broker-dealers, and we have incurred substantial costs in order to review and modify our policies and procedures, including associated supervisory and compliance controls. we anticipate that we will continue to incur costs in the future to comply with the standard. in addition to the sec, various states have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations seeking to impose new standards of conduct on broker-dealers that, as written, differ from the sec's new regulations and may lead to additional implementation costs. implementation of the new sec regulations, as well as any new state rules that are adopted addressing similar matters, has resulted in (and may continue to result in) increased costs related to compliance, legal, operations and information technology. numerous regulatory changes and enhanced regulatory and enforcement activity relating to our investment management activities may increase our compliance and legal costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. as some of our wholly-owned subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the sec, increased regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in additional operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. while it is not possible to determine the extent of the long-term impact of any new laws or regulations that have been promulgated, or initiatives that have been or may be proposed, even the short-term impact of preparing for or implementing changes to our infrastructure and processes could negatively impact the ways we conduct business and increase our compliance and legal costs. conformance with any new law or regulations could also make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect our product and service offerings. investment management businesses have been affected by the sec's regulation best interest which, in addition to creating a standard of care a financial advisor owes its clients, also impacts investment advice provided by investment advisers. the result has been increased scrutiny within the industry regarding how advisory products are offered and sold. such changes could impact our revenues and profitability. in addition, the sec and other regulators continue to scrutinize broker-dealer platforms. with respect to mutual funds, for example, the sec's well-publicized share class selection disclosure initiative has required raymond james' affiliated broker-dealers and others to make changes to the availability of mutual funds and mutual fund share classes on their distribution platforms. such changes could impact mutual fund sales, including those sponsored by our subsidiaries, and affect our profitability. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have taken regulatory actions impacting the investment management industry, and may continue to do so including expanding current (or enacting new) standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. for example, mifid ii in the e.u. requires the use of hard dollars for research, as opposed to the use of soft dollars, where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors. the research relied on in our investment management activities in the investment decision-making process is typically generated internally by our investment analysts or external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars. this external research is generally used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services. if the use of soft dollars were to become limited in the u.s., we may have to bear some of these additional costs. new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products, including additional recordkeeping and disclosure requirements, may also impact our asset management business and result in increased costs. failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to rjf, rj bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business. as discussed in item 1 - business - regulation of this form 10-k, rjf and rj bank are subject to capital requirements administered by various federal regulators in the u.s. and, accordingly, must meet specific capital guidelines that involve 31 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries quantitative measures of rjf and rj bank's assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory guidelines. failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory (and potentially discretionary) actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either rjf or rj bank's operations and financial condition. further, we are subject to the sec's uniform net capital rule (rule 15c3-1) and finra's net capital rule, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. rj ltd. is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulations in canada by iiroc. additionally, our u.s. entities operating as nonbank custodians of individual retirement accounts ( iras ) must also satisfy certain internal revenue service ( irs ) regulations in order to accept new ira and qualified plans and retain the accounts for which it serves as nonbank custodian. regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds that rjf may need to make payments on any of its obligations. see note 22 of the notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k for further information on regulations and capital requirements. the basel iii regulatory capital standards impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our profitability. the fed, the occ and the fdic have implemented the global regulatory capital reforms of basel iii and certain changes required by the dodd-frank act. the u.s. basel iii rules increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establish a capital conservation buffer and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets. we became subject to the requirements under the final u.s. basel iii rules as of january 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for several of its provisions, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions. the capital requirements stipulated under the u.s. basel iii rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital. as a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. as a financial holding company, rjf's liquidity depends on payments from its subsidiaries, which may be subject to regulatory restrictions. rjf as a financial holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations, including its debt service obligations. rjf's subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to prevent or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to rjf. rjf's broker-dealers and bank subsidiary are limited in their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and are subject to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as limitations on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or bank accounts to fund their businesses. these requirements may hinder rjf's ability to access funds from its subsidiaries. rjf may also become subject to a prohibition or limitations on its ability to pay dividends or repurchase its common stock. the federal banking regulators, including the occ, the fed and the fdic, as well as the sec (through finra) have the authority and under certain circumstances, the obligation, to limit or prohibit dividend payments and stock repurchases by the banking organizations they supervise, including rjf and its bank subsidiaries. rj bank is subject to the community reinvestment act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties. the cra, the equal credit opportunity act, the fair housing act and other u.s. federal fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. the u.s. department of justice and other federal agencies, including the cfpb, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. an unfavorable cra rating or a successful challenge to an institution's performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil monetary penalties, injunctive relief, and the imposition of restrictions on mergers, acquisitions and expansion activity. private parties may also have the ability to challenge a financial institution's performance under fair lending laws by bringing private class action litigation. as discussed in item 1 - business - regulation of this form 10-k, certain amendments to the cra have not yet been finalized. these developments create further uncertainty for rj bank and others in planning their cra activities. any revisions to the final regulations that implement the cra may negatively impact our business, including through increased costs related to compliance. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see item 7 - management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - risk management of this form 10-k for our quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 78 raymond james financial, inc. and subsidiaries