risk factors. 6 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. risks due to strategic and operational factors our strategic growth plans focus on both our stores and on e-commerce and failure to successfully execute our plans could negatively impact our current business and future profitability. we plan to accelerate the number of new nordstrom rack store openings. new store openings both at the rack and in our full-line stores involve certain risks, including the availability of suitable locations, constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost-effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. in addition, sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could adversely affect our return on investment. we also intend to open stores in new and international markets, such as canada, puerto rico and manhattan, and expansion will require additional management attention and resources and may distract us from executing our core operations. in addition, competition from strong local competitors, compliance with foreign and local laws and regulatory requirements and potentially unfavorable tax consequences may cause our business to be adversely impacted. 6 table of contents we are also enhancing our customer shopping experience in our stores, online, and in mobile and social channels by pursuing a heightened focus on technology and e-commerce to fuel our growth. in addition, other growth opportunities may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to improve and integrate these experiences. if we target the wrong opportunities, fail to make the best investments or make an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs, it may result in the loss of our competitive position. if these technologies and investments do not perform as expected or are not seamlessly integrated, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not maintain our current systems, we may see interruptions to our business and increased costs in order to bring our systems up to date. as we execute our plans and continue to evolve and transform our strategy, we may not adequately manage the related organizational changes or appropriately monitor, report or communicate the changes in an effective manner, adversely impacting our current business and future profitability. improvements to our merchandise buying processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed. we are making investments to improve our merchandise planning, procurement and allocation capabilities through changes in personnel, processes and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop future leaders, our business may suffer . we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result, could damage our reputation and our business. we could expose our customers and our business to risk if we fail to take the appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches. our operations involve the collection, storage and transmission of customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information, in addition to employee information and company financial and strategic data. any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity threat may not be totally effective and may have the potential to harm relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at our company, our third-party providers or our peer retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers' trust and business. if we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return. we utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. if our access to capital is restricted or our cost of capital increases, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. our customer and employee relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation. we have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons employees choose nordstrom as a place of employment. any significant damage to our reputation could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. risks due to economic and external market factors a downturn in economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our website as they may be seen as discretionary and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. this reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending. deterioration of economic conditions and consumer confidence may also adversely affect our credit customers' payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces. we compete with other national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and internet businesses. online retail shopping is rapidly evolving and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer if we are unable to remain competitive in the key areas of price and value, fashion newness, quality of products, depth of selection, convenience, fulfillment, service and the shopping experience, including the online and store environment and location. our credit segment faces competition from other retailers who also offer credit card products with associated loyalty programs, large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. if we do not effectively anticipate or respond to the competitive banking and credit card environment, we could lose market share to our competitors. our sales and customer relationships may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends appropriately. our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers. the results of our credit operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends, laws and regulations and other factors. these economic and market conditions could impair our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses. this could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. we derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts of the united states, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to conditions in these regions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales; staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices; interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores; disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers; increased costs; and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. risks due to legal and regulatory factors we are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the sec and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, the banking industry and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters and health care reform, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social and environmental practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal and state tax laws, which may increase our tax liabilities. an increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. 8 table of contents our business faces uncertainties as we implement newly enacted financial system reforms that could have an adverse affect on our operations. the recession resulted in increased legislative and regulatory changes affecting the financial industry. the credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 included new rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application, which required us to make changes to our credit card practices and systems. we expect more regulations and interpretations of the new rules to emerge and, depending on the nature and extent of the full impact from these rules, the revenues and profitability of our credit segment could be adversely affected. in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act was enacted in july 2010. it significantly restructures regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, creates a new federal agency to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations and expands state authority over consumer lending. numerous regulations will be issued in the near future to implement the requirements of this act, which remain uncertain at this time. depending on the nature and extent of these regulations, and the enforcement approach of regulators under the new law, there could be an adverse impact to our credit segment. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. dollars in millions interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in short-term interest rates. as of february 2, 2013 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,285 , which generate interest income at variable rates, and gross credit card receivables of $2,142 , which generate finance charge income at a combination of fixed and variable rates. interest rate fluctuations can affect our interest income, credit card revenues and interest expense. see note 3: accounts receivable in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data for additional information. we use sensitivity analyses to measure and assess our interest rate risk exposure. for purposes of presenting the potential earnings effect of a reasonably possible hypothetical change in interest rates from our reporting date, we utilized two sensitivity scenarios: (i) linear growth of approximately 170 basis points over the year and (ii) linear decline of approximately 20 basis points over the year, due to the fact that current interest rates are at or near historically low levels. other key parameters and assumptions in our sensitivity analyses include the average cash and cash equivalents balance, average credit card receivables balance and no new floating rate debt issuance. the first hypothetical scenario would result in an approximate $16 increase in future earnings, while the second hypothetical scenario would not have a material effect on future earnings. for our long-term fixed-rate debt of $3,131 , our exposure to interest rate risk is limited to the change in fair value of the debt. as of february 2, 2013 , the fair value of our fixed-rate debt was $3,665 . see note 8: debt and credit facilities and note 9: fair value measurements in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data for additional information. foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into merchandise purchase orders denominated primarily in euros. from time to time, we may use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. as of february 2, 2013 , our outstanding forward contracts did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. during 2012, we announced plans to open four full-line stores in canada beginning in 2014, and as a result we have incurred certain expenses denominated in canadian dollars. as of february 2, 2013, activities associated with the future store openings have not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 34 table of contentsrisk factors. 6 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. risks due to strategic and operational factors our customer strategy focuses on providing a seamless, cohesive and high-quality experience across all nordstrom channels and failure to successfully execute our plans could negatively impact our current business and future profitability. we are enhancing our customer shopping experience in our stores, online, and in mobile and social channels by pursuing a heightened focus on technology and e-commerce to fuel our growth. with the accelerated pace of change in the retail environment, we may not be able to meet our customers' changing expectations in how they shop in stores or through e-commerce. if we target the wrong opportunities, fail to make investments at the right time or speed, fail to make the best investments in the right channels or make an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs, it may result in the loss of our competitive position. if these technologies and investments do not perform as expected or are not seamlessly integrated, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not maintain our current systems, we may see interruptions to our business and increased costs in order to bring our systems up to date. we are continuing our plan to accelerate the number of new nordstrom rack store openings. new store openings both at the rack and in our full-line stores involve certain risks, including the availability of suitable locations, constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost-effective manner and properly balancing our capital investments between new stores, remodels, technology and e-commerce. in addition, we may not accurately assess the demographic or retail environment for a particular location and sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, particularly in light of the changing trends between online and brick-and-mortar shopping channels, which could adversely affect our return on investment. we also intend to open stores in new and international markets, such as canada, puerto rico and manhattan, and expansion will require additional management attention and resources and may distract us from executing our core operations. in addition, competition from strong local competitors, compliance with foreign and local laws and regulatory requirements and potentially unfavorable tax consequences may cause our business to be adversely impacted. as we execute our plans and continue to evolve and transform our strategy, we may not adequately manage the related organizational changes to align with our strategy or appropriately monitor, report or communicate the changes in an effective manner. in addition, we may not gather accurate and relevant data or effectively utilize that data, which may impact our strategic planning and decision making. 6 table of contents improvements to our merchandise buying processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed. we are making investments to improve our merchandise planning, procurement and allocation capabilities through changes in personnel, processes and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy or evolve our strategy as the retail environment changes could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop talent and future leaders, our business may suffer . we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace, and the talents of our workforce to execute our business strategies and objectives. if unexpected turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, we could still expose our customers and our business to risk. our retail and credit segments involve the collection, storage and transmission of customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. in addition, our operations involve the collection, storage and transmission of employee information and company financial and strategic data. any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity threat may not be totally effective and may have the potential to harm relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at our company, our third-party providers or other retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers' trust and business, which could adversely impact our sales. any such breaches or incidents could subject us to investigation, notification and remediation costs, and if there is additional information that is later discovered related to such security breach or incident, there could be further loss of customers' trust and business, based upon their reactions to this additional information. if we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return. we utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. if our access to capital is restricted or our cost of capital increases, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. our customer and employee relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation. we have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons customers shop with us and employees choose us as a place of employment. any significant damage to our reputation could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. risks due to economic and external market factors a downturn in economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our websites as they may be seen as discretionary and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. this reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending. deterioration of economic conditions and consumer confidence may also adversely affect our credit customers' payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces and changes in customer behavior. we compete with other national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and internet businesses. the retail environment is rapidly evolving with customer shopping preferences continuing to shift online and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer if we are unable to remain competitive in the key areas of price and value, fashion newness, quality of products, depth of selection, convenience, fulfillment, service and the shopping experience, including the online and store environment and location. our financial model is changing to match customer shopping preferences, but if we do not properly allocate our capital between the store and online environment, or adjust the effectiveness and efficiency of our stores, our overall sales and profitability could suffer. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents our credit segment faces competition from other retailers who also offer credit card products with associated loyalty programs, large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. if we do not effectively anticipate or respond to the competitive banking and credit card environments, we could lose market share to our competitors. our sales and customer relationships may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends appropriately. our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers. the results of our credit operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends, laws and regulations and other factors. these economic and market conditions could impair our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses. this could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. we derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts of the united states, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to conditions in these regions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales, staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices, interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores, disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers, increased costs, and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. risks due to legal and regulatory factors we are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the sec and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, the banking industry and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters and health care reform, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social and environmental practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal and state tax laws, which may increase our tax liabilities. an increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we continue to face uncertainties due to financial services industry regulation and supervision that could have an adverse affect on our operations. federal and state regulation and supervision of the financial industry has increased in recent years due to implementation of consumer protection and financial reform legislation such as the credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 ( card act ) and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( financial reform act ). the financial reform act significantly restructured regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, created the bureau of consumer financial protection ( cfpb ), to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations, and expanded state authority over consumer lending. the card act included new and revised rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. we anticipate more regulation and interpretations of the new rules to continue, and, depending on the nature and extent of these new regulations and interpretations, we may be required to make changes to our credit card practices and systems, which could adversely impact the revenues and profitability of our credit segment. in addition, we operate in a regulated environment where financial supervisory agencies provide oversight over our activities. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could face enforcement actions from these agencies, which could have an adverse impact on us. 8 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. dollars in millions interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in short-term interest rates. as of february 1, 2014 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,194 , which generate interest income at variable rates, and gross credit card receivables of $2,184 , which generate finance charge income at a combination of fixed and variable rates. interest rate fluctuations can affect our interest income, credit card revenues and interest expense. see note 3: accounts receivable in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data for additional information. we use sensitivity analyses to measure and assess our interest rate risk exposure. for purposes of presenting the potential earnings effect of a reasonably possible hypothetical change in interest rates from our reporting date, we utilized two sensitivity scenarios: (i) linear growth of approximately 225 basis points over the year and (ii) linear decline of approximately 15 basis points over the year, due to the fact that current interest rates are near historically low levels. other key parameters and assumptions in our sensitivity analyses include the average cash and cash equivalents balance, average credit card receivables balance and no new floating rate debt. the first hypothetical scenario would result in an approximate $21 increase in future earnings, while the second hypothetical scenario would not have a material effect on future earnings. for our long-term fixed-rate debt of $3,113 , our exposure to interest rate risk is limited to changes in the fair value of our debt. as our debt is fixed-rate, changes in interest rates do not impact our cash flows, however, changes in interest rates increase or decrease the fair value of our debt, depending on whether market rates are lower or higher than our fixed-rates. as of february 1, 2014 , the fair value of our fixed-rate debt was $3,511 . see note 8: debt and credit facilities and note 9: fair value measurements in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data for additional information. foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into merchandise purchase orders denominated primarily in british pounds or euros. from time to time, we may use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. as of february 1, 2014 , our outstanding forward contracts did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. we have announced plans to open six full-line stores in canada beginning in 2014. the functional currency of our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. we translate assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, while we translate revenues and expenses using a weighted-average exchange rate for the period. we record these translation adjustments as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss on the consolidated balance sheets in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data. in addition, our u.s. operations incurred certain expenditures denominated in canadian dollars, and our canadian operations incurred certain expenditures denominated in u.s. dollars. this activity results in transaction gains and losses that arise from exchange rate fluctuations and are recorded as gains or losses in the consolidated statements of earnings in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data. as of february 1, 2014, activities associated with the future store openings have not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 34 table of contentsrisk factors. 6 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. risks due to strategic and operational factors our customer strategy focuses on providing a seamless, cohesive and high-quality experience across all nordstrom channels and failure to successfully execute our plans could negatively impact our current business and future profitability. we are enhancing our customer shopping experience in our stores, online, and in mobile and social channels by pursuing a heightened focus on technology and ecommerce to fuel our growth. with the accelerated pace of change in the retail environment, we may not be able to meet our customers' changing expectations in how they shop in stores or through ecommerce. if we target the wrong opportunities, fail to make investments at the right time or pace, fail to make the best investments in the right channels or make an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs, it may result in the loss of our competitive position. if these technologies and investments do not perform as expected or are not seamlessly integrated, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. in addition, if we do not maintain our current systems, we may see interruptions to our business and increased costs in order to bring our systems up to date. 6 table of contents we are continuing our plan to accelerate the number of new nordstrom rack store openings. new store openings both at the rack and in our full-line stores involve certain risks, including the availability of suitable locations, constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost-effective manner and properly balancing our capital investments between new stores, remodels, technology and ecommerce. in addition, we may not accurately assess the demographic or retail environment for a particular location and sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, particularly in light of the changing trends between online and brick-and-mortar shopping channels, which could adversely affect our return on investment. we also intend to open stores in new and international markets, such as canada, puerto rico and manhattan, and expansion will require additional management attention and resources and may distract us from executing our core operations. in addition, competition from strong local competitors, compliance with foreign and local laws and regulatory requirements and potentially unfavorable tax consequences may cause our business to be adversely impacted. as we execute our plans and continue to evolve and transform our strategy, we may not adequately manage the related organizational changes to align with our strategy or appropriately monitor, report or communicate the changes in an effective manner. in addition, we may not gather accurate and relevant data or effectively utilize that data, which may impact our strategic planning and decision making. our stores located in shopping malls may be adversely affected if the consumer traffic of malls decline. many of our stores are located in desirable locations within shopping malls and benefit from the abilities that we and other anchor tenants have to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in mall traffic, the development of new shopping malls, the availability of locations within existing or new shopping malls, the success of individual shopping malls and the success of other anchor tenants may negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our sales in existing stores, as well as our ability to open new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. improvements to our merchandise buying processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed. we are making investments to improve our merchandise planning, procurement and allocation capabilities through changes in personnel, processes and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy or evolve our strategy as the retail environment changes could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations. if we do not effectively design and implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop talent and future leaders, our business may suffer . we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace, and the talents of our workforce to execute our business strategies and objectives. if unexpected turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, our customers and our business could still be exposed to risk. our retail and credit segments involve the collection, storage and transmission of customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. in addition, our operations involve the collection, storage and transmission of employee information and company financial and strategic data. any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity threat may not be totally effective and may have the potential to harm relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at our company, our third-party providers or other retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers' trust and business, which could adversely impact our sales. any such breaches or incidents could subject us to investigation, notification and remediation costs, and if there is additional information that is later discovered related to such security breach or incident, there could be further loss of customers' trust and business, based upon their reactions to this additional information. additionally, as a credit card issuer, we could be subject to credit card fraud losses due to external credit card fraud. if we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return. we utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. if our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents our customer and employee relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation. we have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons customers shop with us and employees choose us as a place of employment. any significant damage to our reputation could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. the potential transaction related to our credit card receivables could adversely impact our business. in may 2014, we announced that we are reviewing options for a financial partner for our credit card receivables. this review may not result in a consummated transaction, and further, could divert management's attention away from our core retail business, negatively impacting our execution on our customer strategy. if we do not successfully execute a transaction that meets our needs or fail to properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. additionally, credit rating agencies may downgrade our business, which could adversely impact our operations and cash flows. although we do not expect any change to the customer experience following a transaction, if such a transaction negatively impacts the customer service associated with our credit cards, this could harm our business and reputation, harming our competitive position. the concentration of stock ownership in a small number of our shareholders could limit your ability to influence corporate matters. we have regularly reported in our annual proxy statements the holdings of members of the nordstrom family, including bruce a. nordstrom, our former co-president and chairman of the board, his sister anne e. gittinger and members of the nordstrom family within our executive team. in our proxy statement as of march 2, 2015 , for the 2015 annual meeting of shareholders, these individuals owned an aggregate of approximately 27% of our common stock. as a result, either individually or acting together, they may be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. as reported in our periodic filings, our board of directors has from time to time authorized share repurchases. while these share repurchases may be offset in part by share issuances under our equity incentive plans and as consideration for acquisitions, the repurchases may nevertheless have the effect of increasing the overall percentage ownership held by these shareholders. the corporate law of the state of washington, where the company is incorporated, provides that approval of a merger or similar significant corporate transaction requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of a company's outstanding shares. the beneficial ownership of these shareholders may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, delay or otherwise prevent a significant corporate transaction because the consummation of any such transaction would likely require the approval of these shareholders. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be affected. investment and partnerships in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our core business. we have invested in or are pursuing strategic growth opportunities, which may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to provide a superior customer shopping experience in our stores and online. additionally, our business model will continue to rely more on partnerships with third parties for certain strategic initiatives and technologies. if these investments, acquisitions or partnerships do not perform as expected or create operational difficulties, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. risks due to economic and external market factors a downturn in economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our websites as they may be seen as discretionary and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. this reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending. our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces and changes in customer behavior. we compete with other national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and internet businesses. the retail environment is rapidly evolving with customer shopping preferences continuing to shift online and we expect competition in the ecommerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer if we are unable to remain competitive in the key areas of price and value, fashion newness, quality of products, depth of selection, convenience, fulfillment, service and the shopping experience, including the online and store environment and store location. our financial model is changing to match customer shopping preferences, but if we do not properly allocate our capital between the store and online environment, or adjust the effectiveness and efficiency of our stores, our overall sales and profitability could suffer. our credit segment faces competition from other retailers who also offer credit card products with associated loyalty programs, large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. if we do not effectively anticipate or respond to the competitive banking and credit card environments, we could lose market share to our competitors. 8 table of contents our sales and customer relationships may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends appropriately. our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers. the results of our credit operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends and other factors. these economic and market conditions could impair our credit card revenues and the profitability of our credit card business due to factors such as lower demand for credit, or could impair ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses, causing our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. deterioration of economic conditions and consumer confidence may also adversely affect our credit customers' payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, port disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. we derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts of the united states, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to conditions in these regions. similarly, merchandise received through west coast ports could be adversely impacted by labor disruptions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales, staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices, interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores, disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers, increased costs, and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. risks due to legal and regulatory factors we are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the sec and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, the banking industry and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters and health care reform, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social, environmental and supply chain practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws, which may increase our tax liabilities. an increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we continue to face uncertainties due to financial services industry regulation and supervision that could have an adverse affect on our operations. federal and state regulation and supervision of the financial industry has increased in recent years due to implementation of consumer protection and financial reform legislation such as the credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 ( card act ) and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( financial reform act ). the financial reform act significantly restructured regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, created the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations, and expanded state authority over consumer lending. the card act included new and revised rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. we anticipate more regulation and interpretations of the new rules to continue, and, depending on the nature and extent of these new regulations and interpretations, we may be required to make changes to our credit card practices and systems, which could adversely impact the revenues and profitability of our credit segment. in addition, we operate in a regulated environment where financial supervisory agencies provide oversight over our activities. compliance with applicable laws and regulations could limit or restrict our activities and the conduct of our business and enforcement actions by those agencies for failure to comply could have an adverse impact on us. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 9 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. dollars in millions interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in short-term interest rates. as of january 31, 2015 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $827 , which generate interest income at variable rates, and gross credit card receivables of $2,284 , which generate finance charge income at a combination of fixed and variable rates. interest rate fluctuations can affect our interest income, credit card revenues and interest expense. see note 3: accounts receivable in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data for additional information. we use sensitivity analyses to measure and assess our interest rate risk exposure. for purposes of presenting the potential earnings effect of a reasonably possible hypothetical change in interest rates from our reporting date, we utilized two sensitivity scenarios: (i) linear growth of approximately 225 basis points over the year and (ii) linear decline of approximately 15 basis points over the year, due to the fact that current interest rates are near historically low levels. other key parameters and assumptions in our sensitivity analyses include the average cash and cash equivalents balance, average credit card receivables balance and no new floating rate debt. the first hypothetical scenario would result in an approximate $15 increase in future earnings, while the second hypothetical scenario would not have a material effect on future earnings. for our long-term fixed-rate debt of $3,131 , our exposure to interest rate risk is limited to changes in the fair value of our debt. as our debt is primarily fixed-rate, changes in interest rates do not impact our cash flows. however, changes in interest rates increase or decrease the fair value of our debt, depending on whether market rates are lower or higher than our fixed-rates. as of january 31, 2015 , the fair value of our fixed-rate debt was $3,693 . see note 8: debt and credit facilities and note 9: fair value measurements in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data for additional information. foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. our u.s. operation periodically enters into merchandise purchase orders denominated in british pounds or euros. from time to time, we may use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. as of january 31, 2015 , our outstanding forward contracts did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. as of january 31, 2015, we have opened one full-line store in canada and have announced plans to open five additional full-line stores in canada over the next few years. the functional currency of our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. we translate assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, while we translate revenues and expenses using a weighted-average exchange rate for the period. we record these translation adjustments as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss on the consolidated balance sheets in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data. our canadian operations enter into merchandise purchase orders denominated in u.s. dollars for approximately half of its inventory. as sales in canada are denominated in the canadian dollar, gross profit for our canadian operations can be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. in addition, our u.s. operations incurred certain expenditures denominated in canadian dollars and our canadian operations incurred certain expenditures denominated in u.s. dollars. this activity results in transaction gains and losses that arise from exchange rate fluctuations and are recorded as gains or losses in the consolidated statements of earnings in item 8: financial statements and supplementary data. as of january 31, 2015 , activities associated with foreign currency exchange risk have not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 35 table of contentsrisk factors. 6 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. risks due to strategic and operational factors our customer strategy focuses on providing a seamless and high-quality experience across all nordstrom channels and failure to successfully execute our plans could negatively impact our current business and future profitability. we are enhancing our customer shopping experience in our stores, online, and in mobile and social channels by pursuing a heightened focus on technology and ecommerce to fuel our growth. with the accelerated pace of change in the retail environment, we may not be able to meet our customers' changing expectations in how they shop in stores or through ecommerce. if we target the wrong opportunities, fail to make investments at the right time or pace, fail to make the best investments in the right channels or make an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs, it may harm our competitive position. if these technologies and investments do not perform as expected, are not seamlessly integrated, or are not maintained properly, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. 6 table of contents we are continuing our plan to accelerate the number of new nordstrom rack store openings. new store openings both at nordstrom rack and in our full-line stores involve certain risks, including the availability of suitable locations, constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost-effective manner and properly balancing our capital investments between new stores, remodels, technology and ecommerce. in addition, we may not accurately assess the demographic or retail environment for a particular location and sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, particularly in light of the changing trends between online and brick-and-mortar shopping channels, which could adversely affect our return on investment. we also intend to open stores in new and international markets, such as canada and manhattan, and expansion will require additional management attention and resources and may distract us from executing our core operations. in addition, competition from strong local competitors, compliance with foreign and local laws and regulatory requirements and potentially unfavorable tax consequences may cause our business to be adversely impacted. as we execute our plans and continue to evolve and transform our strategy, we may not adequately manage the related organizational changes to align with our strategy or appropriately monitor, report or communicate the changes in an effective manner. in addition, we may not gather accurate and relevant data or effectively utilize that data, which may impact our strategic planning and decision making. our growth strategy as it relates to ecommerce could have adverse impacts on our results of operations if not successfully executed. we are continuing our investment in ecommerce as advancements in technology have impacted shopping behaviors of consumers. computers, mobile phones, tablets and other devices allow customers to browse and transact anywhere or anytime. our growth strategies in this area span the development of applications for electronic devices, improvement of customer-facing technology, timely delivery of products purchased online, enhancement of inventory management systems, greater and more fluid inventory availability between online and retail locations, and greater consistency in marketing and pricing strategies. this business model has a high variable cost structure driven by fulfillment, marketing and technology costs and will continue to require investment in cross-channel operations and supporting technologies. if we do not implement and expand our ecommerce initiatives successfully or we do not realize our anticipated return on these investments, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. in addition, if customers shift to ecommerce more quickly than we anticipate, we may need to accelerate our ecommerce initiatives and investments and may experience higher costs adversely impacting our profitability. our stores located in shopping malls may be adversely affected if the consumer traffic of malls decline. many of our stores are located in desirable locations within shopping malls and benefit from the abilities that we and other anchor tenants have to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in mall traffic, the development of new shopping malls, the availability of locations within existing or new shopping malls, the success of individual shopping malls and the success of other anchor tenants may negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our sales in existing stores, as well as our ability to open new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. improvements to our merchandise buying and fulfillment processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed. we are making investments to improve our merchandise planning, procurement, allocation and fulfillment capabilities through changes in personnel, processes, location logistics and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy or evolve our strategy as the retail environment changes could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations. if we do not effectively design and implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop talent and future leaders, our business may suffer . we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace, and the talents of our workforce to execute our business strategies and objectives. if unexpected turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, our customers and our business could still be exposed to risk. our retail and credit segments involve the collection, storage and transmission of customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. in addition, our operations involve the collection, storage and transmission of employee information and company financial and strategic data. any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity threat may not be totally effective and may have the potential to harm relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at our company, our third-party providers or other retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers' trust and business, which could adversely impact our sales. any such breaches or incidents could subject us to investigation, notification and remediation costs, and if there is additional information that is later discovered related to such security breach or incident, there could be further loss of customers' trust and business based upon their reactions to this additional information. additionally, we could be subject to credit card fraud losses due to external credit card fraud. if we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return. we utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. if our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. ownership and leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. we own or lease the land and/or building for all of our stores and are therefore subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. in particular, the value of the assets could decrease and their operating costs could increase, due to changes in the real estate market, demographic trends, site competition and overall economic trends. additionally, we are potentially subject to liability for environmental conditions, exit costs associated with disposal of a store, commitments to pay base rent for the entire lease term or operate a store for the duration of an operating covenant. our customer and employee relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation. we have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons customers shop with us and employees choose us as a place of employment. any significant damage to our reputation could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. the transaction related to the sale of our credit card receivables and resulting program agreement with td could adversely impact our business. in october 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our u.s. visa and private label credit card portfolio to td. while this transaction was consummated on terms that allow us to maintain customer-facing activities, if we fail to meet certain service levels under the program agreement with td, td has the right to assume certain individual servicing functions. if we lose control of such activities and functions, if we do not successfully respond to potential risks and appropriately manage potential costs associated with the program agreement with td, or if this transaction negatively impacts the customer service associated with our cards, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected, which could also harm our business reputation and competitive positioning. the concentration of stock ownership in a small number of our shareholders could limit your ability to influence corporate matters. we have regularly reported in our annual proxy statements the holdings of members of the nordstrom family, including bruce a. nordstrom, our former co-president and chairman of the board, his sister anne e. gittinger and members of the nordstrom family within our executive team. in our proxy statement as of march 11, 2016 , for the 2016 annual meeting of shareholders, these individuals beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 30% of our common stock. as a result, either individually or acting together, they may be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. as reported in our periodic filings, our board of directors has from time to time authorized share repurchases. while these share repurchases may be offset in part by share issuances under our equity incentive plans and as consideration for acquisitions, the repurchases may nevertheless have the effect of increasing the overall percentage ownership held by these shareholders. the corporate law of the state of washington, where the company is incorporated, provides that approval of a merger or similar significant corporate transaction requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of a company's outstanding shares. the beneficial ownership of these shareholders may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, delay or otherwise prevent a significant corporate transaction because the consummation of any such transaction would likely require the approval of these shareholders. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be affected. 8 table of contents investment and partnerships in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our core business. we have invested in or are pursuing strategic growth opportunities, which may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to provide a superior customer shopping experience in our stores and online. additionally, our business model will continue to rely more on partnerships with third parties for certain strategic initiatives and technologies. if these investments, acquisitions or partnerships do not perform as expected or create operational difficulties, we may record impairment charges and our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. risks due to economic and external market factors a downturn in economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our websites as they may be seen as discretionary and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. this reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns, an overly promotional environment and increased marketing and promotional spending. our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces and changes in customer behavior. we compete with other international, national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and internet businesses. the retail environment is rapidly evolving with customer shopping preferences continuing to shift online and we expect competition in the ecommerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer if we are unable to remain competitive. our financial model is changing to match customer shopping preferences, but if we do not properly allocate our capital between the store and online environment, or adjust the effectiveness and efficiency of our stores and online channels, our overall sales and profitability could suffer. our credit segment faces competition from other retailers who also offer credit card products with associated loyalty programs, large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. if we do not effectively anticipate or respond to the competitive banking and credit card environments, we could lose market share to our competitors. our sales and customer relationships may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends appropriately. our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and potentially harm relationships with our customers. the results of our credit operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. our credit card revenues, net and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends and other factors. these economic and market conditions could impair our revenues and the profitability of our credit segment due to factors such as lower demand for credit, unfavorable payment patterns and higher delinquency rates. additionally, our results may be negatively impacted if there are changes to the credit card risk management policies implemented under our program agreement with td. our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, port disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. we derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts of the united states, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to market-disrupting conditions in these regions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales, staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices, interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores, disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers, increased costs, and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 9 table of contents risks due to legal and regulatory factors we are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the sec and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, the banking industry and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters and health care reform, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social, environmental and supply chain practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws, which may increase our tax liabilities. an increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we continue to face uncertainties due to financial services industry regulation and supervision that could have an adverse affect on our operations. federal and state regulation and supervision of the financial industry has increased in recent years due to implementation of consumer protection and financial reform legislation such as the credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 ( card act ) and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( financial reform act ). the financial reform act significantly restructured regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, created the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations, and expanded state authority over consumer lending. the card act included new and revised rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. we anticipate more regulation and interpretations of the new rules to continue, and we may be required to make changes, or td may be required to make changes in connection with the program agreement, to credit card practices and systems which could adversely impact the revenues and profitability of our credit segment. compliance with applicable laws and regulations could limit or restrict the activities of our business, whether conducted by us or td, and any potential enforcement actions by those agencies for failure to comply could have an adverse impact on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. dollars in millions interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in short-term interest rates. on october 1, 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our u.s. visa and private label credit card portfolio to td (see note 2: credit card receivable transaction in item 8), and following the close, the interest rate risk on our retained receivables is insignificant. for our long-term debt of $ 2,805 , our exposure to interest rate risk is limited to changes in fair value. as our debt is primarily fixed-rate, changes in interest rates do not significantly impact our cash flows. however, changes in interest rates increase or decrease the fair value of our debt, depending on whether market rates are lower or higher than our fixed-rates. as of january 30, 2016 , the fair value of our long-term debt was $3,077 . see note 9: debt and credit facilities and note 10: fair value measurements in item 8 for additional information. foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. our u.s. operation periodically enters into merchandise purchase orders denominated in british pounds or euros. from time to time, we may use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. as of january 30, 2016 , our outstanding forward contracts did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. we have three full-line stores in canada and have announced plans to open four additional stores in canada over the next few years. the functional currency of our canadian operations is the canadian dollar. we translate assets and liabilities into u.s. dollars using the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date, while we translate revenues and expenses using a weighted-average exchange rate for the period. we record these translation adjustments as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss on the consolidated balance sheets inrisk factors. 7 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. risks due to strategic and operational factors our customer strategy focuses on providing a seamless and high-quality experience across all nordstrom channels and failure to successfully execute our plans could negatively impact our current business and future profitability. we are enhancing our customer shopping experience in our stores, online and in mobile and social channels by pursuing a heightened focus on technology and ecommerce to fuel our growth. with the accelerated pace of change in the retail environment, we may not be able to meet our customers' changing expectations in how they shop in stores or through ecommerce. if we target the wrong opportunities, fail to make investments at the right time or pace, fail to make the best investments in the right channels or make an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs, it may harm our competitive position. if these technologies and investments do not perform as expected, are not seamlessly integrated or are not maintained properly, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. we are continuing our plan to open new stores. this involves certain risks, including the availability of suitable locations, constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost-effective manner and properly balancing our capital investments between new stores, remodels, technology and ecommerce. in addition, we may not accurately assess the demographic or retail environment for a particular location and sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, particularly in light of the changing trends between online and brick-and-mortar shopping channels, which could adversely affect our return on investment. we also intend to open stores in new markets and plan to continue expanding in international markets, such as manhattan and canada. these efforts will require additional management attention and resources and may distract us from executing our core operations. in addition, competition from strong local competitors, compliance with foreign and local laws and regulatory requirements and potentially unfavorable tax consequences may cause our business to be adversely impacted. as we execute our plans and continue to evolve and transform our strategy, we may not adequately manage the related organizational changes to align with our strategy or appropriately monitor, report or communicate the changes in an effective manner. in addition, we may not gather accurate and relevant data or effectively utilize that data, which may impact our strategic planning and decision making. our growth strategy as it relates to ecommerce could have adverse impacts on our results of operations if not successfully executed. we are continuing our investment in ecommerce as advancements in technology have impacted shopping behaviors of consumers. computers, mobile phones, tablets and other devices allow customers to browse and transact anywhere or anytime. our growth strategies in this area span the development of applications for electronic devices, improvement of customer-facing technology, timely delivery of products purchased online, enhancement of inventory management systems, greater and more fluid inventory availability between online and retail locations, and greater consistency in marketing and pricing strategies. this business model has a high variable cost structure driven by fulfillment and marketing costs and will continue to require investment in cross-channel operations and supporting technologies. if we do not implement and expand our ecommerce initiatives successfully or we do not realize our anticipated return on these investments, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. in addition, if customers shift to ecommerce more quickly than we anticipate, we may need to accelerate our ecommerce initiatives and investments and may experience higher costs adversely impacting our profitability. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents our stores located in shopping malls may be adversely affected if the consumer traffic of malls decline. many of our stores are located in desirable locations within shopping malls and benefit from the abilities that we and other anchor tenants have to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in mall traffic, the development of new shopping malls, the availability of locations within existing or new shopping malls, the success of individual shopping malls and the success of other anchor tenants may negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our sales in existing stores, as well as our ability to open new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. improvements to our merchandise buying and fulfillment processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed. we are making investments to improve our merchandise planning, procurement, allocation and fulfillment capabilities through changes in personnel, processes, location logistics and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy or evolve our strategy as the retail environment changes could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations. if we do not effectively design and implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop talent and future leaders, our business may suffer. we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace, and the talents of our workforce to execute our business strategies and objectives. if unexpected turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, our customers and our business could still be exposed to risk. nordstrom, our subsidiaries and, in some instances, our third party vendors collect, store and transmit customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. in addition, our operations involve the collection, storage and transmission of employee information and company financial and strategic data. any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity threat may not be totally effective and may have the potential to harm relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. security breaches may be the result of intentional or inadvertent activities by our employees or by third parties with whom we have business relationships that may result in the unauthorized release of customer personal or confidential information. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at our company, our third party providers or other retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers' trust and business, which could adversely impact our sales. any such breaches or incidents could subject us to investigation, notification and remediation costs, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. if there is additional information that is later discovered related to such security breach or incident, there could be further loss of shareholders' and customers' trust and business based upon their reactions to this additional information. additionally, we could be subject to credit card fraud losses due to external credit card fraud. to the extent that any incident results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from our customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card networks and other third parties. our business may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions. our ability to transact with customers and operate our business depends on the efficient operation of our computer and communications systems. if we encounter an interruption or deterioration in critical processes, or experience the loss of critical data which may result from natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, third party or other disruptions, our business could be harmed. depending on the severity of the failure, our disaster recovery plans may be inadequate or ineffective. these events could also damage our reputation, result in loss of sales and be expensive to remedy. our revenues and operating results are affected by the seasonal nature of our business and cyclical trends in consumer spending. our business, like that of other retailers, is subject to seasonal fluctuations and cyclical trends in consumer spending. due to our anniversary sale in july and the holidays in the fourth quarter, our sales are typically higher in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters of the fiscal year. any factor that negatively impacts these selling seasons could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. to provide shareholders a better understanding of management's expectations surrounding results, we provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods comprised of forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. 8 table of contents if we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return. we utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict access to a potential source of liquidity. a deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in a downgrade of our credit rating, constraining the capital available to our company. if our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. ownership and leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. we own or lease the land and/or buildings for all of our stores and are therefore subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. in particular, the value of the assets could decrease, their operating costs could increase, or a store may not be opened as planned due to changes in the real estate market, demographic trends, site competition, dependence on third party performance or overall economic environment. additionally, we are potentially subject to liability for environmental conditions, exit costs associated with disposal of a store, commitments to pay base rent for the entire lease term or operate a store for the duration of an operating covenant. our customer and employee relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation. we have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons customers shop with us and employees choose us as a place of employment. any significant damage to our reputation, including factors outside our control or on social media, could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. the transaction related to the sale of our credit card receivables and resulting program agreement with td could adversely impact our business. in october 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our u.s. visa and private label credit card portfolio to td. while this transaction was consummated on terms that allow us to maintain customer-facing activities, if we fail to meet certain service levels under the program agreement with td, td has the right to assume certain individual servicing functions. if we lose control of such activities and functions, if we do not successfully respond to potential risks and appropriately manage potential costs associated with the program agreement with td, or if this transaction negatively impacts the customer service associated with our cards, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected, which could also harm our business reputation and competitive positioning. the concentration of stock ownership in a small number of our shareholders could limit your ability to influence corporate matters. we have regularly reported in our annual proxy statements the holdings of members of the nordstrom family, including bruce a. nordstrom, our former co-president and chairman of the board, his sister anne e. gittinger and members of the nordstrom family within our executive team. in our proxy statement as of march 7, 2017 , for the 2017 annual meeting of shareholders, these individuals beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 31% of our common stock. as a result, either individually or acting together, they may be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. as reported in our periodic filings, our board of directors has from time to time authorized share repurchases. while these share repurchases may be offset in part by share issuances under our equity incentive plans and as consideration for acquisitions, the repurchases may nevertheless have the effect of increasing the overall percentage ownership held by these shareholders. the corporate law of the state of washington, where the company is incorporated, provides that approval of a merger or similar significant corporate transaction requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of a company's outstanding shares. the beneficial ownership of these shareholders may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, delay or otherwise prevent a significant corporate transaction because the consummation of any such transaction would likely require the approval of these shareholders. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be affected. investment and partnerships in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our core business. we have invested in or are pursuing strategic growth opportunities, which may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to provide a superior customer shopping experience in our stores and online. additionally, our business model will continue to rely more on partnerships with third parties for certain strategic initiatives and technologies. if these investments, acquisitions or partnerships do not perform as expected or create operational difficulties, we may record impairment charges and our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. risks due to economic and external market factors a downturn in economic conditions could have a significant adverse effect on our business. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our websites, as these products may be seen as discretionary, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. this reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns, an overly promotional environment and increased marketing and promotional spending. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 9 table of contents our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces and changes in customer behavior. we compete with other international, national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and internet businesses. the retail environment is rapidly evolving with customer shopping preferences continuing to shift online and we expect competition in the ecommerce market to intensify in the future as the internet continues to facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping. we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer if we are unable to remain competitive. our financial model is changing to match customer shopping preferences, but if we do not properly allocate our capital between the store and online environment, or adjust the effectiveness and efficiency of our stores and online channels, our overall sales and profitability could suffer. our credit segment faces competition from other retailers who also offer credit card products with associated loyalty programs, large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. if we do not effectively anticipate or respond to the competitive banking and credit card environments, we could lose market share to our competitors. our sales and customer relationships may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends appropriately. our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and potentially harm relationships with our customers. our business depends on third parties for the production, supply or delivery of goods, and a disruption could result in lost sales or increased costs. the continued success of our operations is tied to our timely receipt of quality merchandise from third parties. our process to identify qualified vendors and access quality products in an efficient manner on acceptable terms and cost can be complex. violations of law with respect to quality and safety by our importers, manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods or damage our reputation, resulting in lost sales. these vendors may experience difficulties due to economic or political conditions or the countries in which merchandise is manufactured could become subject to new trade restrictions, including increased customs restrictions, tariffs or quotas. additionally, changes in tax and trade policies that impact the retail industry, such as increased taxation on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. the results of our credit operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. our net credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends and other factors. these economic and market conditions could impair our revenues and the profitability of our credit segment due to factors such as lower demand for credit, unfavorable payment patterns and higher delinquency rates. additionally, our results may be negatively impacted if there are changes to the credit card risk management policies implemented under our program agreement with td. our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, port disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. we derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts of the united states, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to market-disrupting conditions in these regions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales, staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices, interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores, disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers, increased costs and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. 10 table of contents risks due to legal and regulatory factors we are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the sec and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, the banking industry and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters and health care reform, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social, environmental and supply chain practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws, which may increase our tax liabilities. an increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we continue to face uncertainties due to financial services industry regulation and supervision that could have an adverse affect on our operations. federal and state regulation and supervision of the financial industry has increased due to implementation of consumer protection and financial reform legislation such as the credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 ( card act ) and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 ( financial reform act ). the financial reform act significantly restructured regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, created the consumer financial protection bureau ( cfpb ) to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations, and expanded state authority over consumer lending. the card act included new and revised rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. we anticipate more regulation and interpretations of the new rules to continue, and we may be required to make changes, or td may be required to make changes in connection with the program agreement, to credit card practices and systems which could adversely impact the revenues and profitability of our credit segment. compliance with applicable laws and regulations could limit or restrict the activities of our business, whether conducted by us or td, and any potential enforcement actions by those agencies for failure to comply could have an adverse impact on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 35risk factors. 7 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. risks due to strategic and operational factors our inability to successfully execute our customer strategy or our plans to evolve our business model could negatively impact our business and future profitability and growth. the retail environment is rapidly evolving with customer shopping preferences continuing to shift to digital channels. computers and mobile electronic devices allow customers to browse and transact anywhere and anytime. our customer strategy focuses on providing a differentiated and seamless experience across all nordstrom channels, whether in store or in the digital environment. we are enhancing our customer shopping experience in our stores and online, including mobile and social channels, by pursuing a heightened focus on digital technology to fuel our growth. our growth strategies in this area span the development of applications for electronic devices, improvement of customer-facing technology, timely delivery of products purchased digitally, enhancement of inventory management systems, greater and more fluid inventory availability between digital and retail locations, and greater consistency in marketing and pricing strategies. in addition, these strategies will require further expansion and reliance on data science and analytics across all our channels. this business model has a high variable cost structure driven by fulfillment and marketing costs and will continue to require investment in cross-channel operations and supporting technologies. with the accelerated pace of change in the retail environment, we may not be able to meet our customers' changing expectations of how they shop in stores or through digital channels. if we do not successfully implement and expand our digital initiatives, or do not seamlessly integrate or maintain them properly, we may fall short of our customer's expectations, impacting our brand, reputation, profitability and growth. in addition, if customers shift to digital channels at a different pace than we anticipate, we may need to quickly modify our initiatives and investments, which may adversely impact our profitability and harm our competitive position. we also may not gather accurate and relevant data or effectively utilize that data, which may impact our strategic planning and decision making. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces and changes in customer behavior. we compete with other international, national, regional and local retailers, including internet-based businesses, omni-channel department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores and boutiques, that may carry similar lines of merchandise. digital channels continue to facilitate comparison shopping, intensifying competition in the retail market. if we fail to adequately anticipate and respond to customer and market dynamics, we may lose market share or our ability to remain competitive, causing our sales and profitability to suffer. if we do not properly allocate our capital between the store and digital environment or between the full-price and off-price channels, or adjust the effectiveness and efficiency of our stores and digital channels, our overall sales and profitability could suffer. our customer relationships and sales may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends or manage inventory levels appropriately. our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and potentially harm relationships with our customers. the investment in existing and new store locations, including our nordstrom men's store nyc and nordstrom nyc , may outpace our expected returns. the locations of our existing stores and planned store openings are assessed based upon desirability, demographics, and retail environment. this involves certain risks, including properly balancing our capital investments between new stores, relocations, remodels, technology and digital channels, assessing the suitability of locations, especially in new domestic and international markets, and constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost-effective manner. in particular, we plan to open our nordstrom men's store nyc in spring 2018 and our nordstrom nyc store in 2019. sales at our stores may not meet projections, particularly in light of the changing trends between digital and brick-and-mortar shopping channels, which could adversely affect our return on investment. as we enter into new domestic and international markets, such as manhattan and canada, our efforts will require additional management attention and resources and may distract us from executing our core operations. even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, our customers and our business could still be exposed to risk. nordstrom, our subsidiaries and, in some instances, our third-party vendors collect, store and transmit customers' personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. in addition, our operations involve the collection, storage and transmission of employee information and our financial and strategic data. security breaches of this information may be the result of intentional or inadvertent activities by our employees or by third parties with whom we have business relationships that may result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee personal or confidential information. any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity threat may not be completely effective and may have the potential to harm relations with our customers and employees or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at nordstrom, our third-party providers or other retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, regulatory enforcement action, fines, information technology system failures or network disruptions, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers' trust and business, any of which could adversely impact our financial performance. any such breaches or incidents could subject us to financial losses, investigation, notification and remediation costs, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. if there is additional information that is later discovered related to such security breach or incident, there could be further loss of shareholders' and customers' trust and business based upon their reactions to this additional information. additionally, we could be subject to external credit card fraud. to the extent that any incident results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from our customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card networks and other third parties. our business may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions. our ability to transact with customers and operate our business depends on the efficient operation of our computer and communications systems. if we encounter an interruption or deterioration in critical processes or experience the loss of critical data, which may result from natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, security or cybersecurity threats or attacks or third-party or other disruptions, our business could be harmed. depending on the severity of the failure, our disaster recovery plans may be inadequate or ineffective. these events could also damage our reputation, result in loss of sales and be expensive to remedy. 8 table of contents improvements to our merchandise buying and fulfillment processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed. we are making investments to improve our merchandise planning, procurement, allocation and fulfillment capabilities through changes in personnel, processes, location logistics and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy or evolve our strategy with changes in the retail environment could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations. the possibility of a going private transaction by the nordstrom family could negatively impact our operating results, business and relationships with our customers, employees, suppliers and partners. in june 2017, members of the nordstrom family formed a group (the group ) to explore the possibility of pursuing a going private transaction involving the acquisition by the group of 100% of our outstanding shares of common stock (a going private transaction ). the board of directors also formed a special committee (the special committee ) comprised of independent directors to act on the company's behalf in connection with such exploration by the group and any possible transaction. in october 2017, the group informed the special committee that the group has suspended active exploration of a going private transaction for the balance of the year. the group also informed the special committee that it intends to continue its efforts to explore the possibility of making a going private proposal after the conclusion of the holiday season. in march 2018, the group delivered an indicative proposal to the special committee regarding a going private transaction. the special committee determined that the price proposed is inadequate. no assurances can be given regarding the terms and details of any such transaction, that any proposal made by the group, if any, will be accepted by the special committee, that definitive documentation relating to a transaction will be executed, or that a transaction will be consummated in accordance with that documentation, if at all. we do not plan to disclose developments or provide updates on the progress or status of any potential going private transaction until the special committee deems further disclosure is appropriate or required. speculation regarding any developments related to the review of a going private transaction and perceived uncertainties related to our future could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. the possibility of a going private transaction or any other alternative may expose us and our operations to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the potential failure to retain, attract or strengthen our relationships with key personnel, current and potential customers, suppliers, and partners, which may cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us; the potential incurrence of expenses associated with the retention of legal, financial and other advisors regardless of whether any transaction is consummated; distractions and disruptions in our business; and exposure to potential litigation in connection with this process and effecting any transaction, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as the market price of our common stock. our customer, employee and vendor relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation. we have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons customers shop with us and employees choose us as a place of employment. any significant damage to our reputation, including factors outside our control or on social media, could diminish customer trust, weaken our vendor relationships, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. additionally, management may not accurately assess the impact of significant legislative changes, including those that relate to privacy, employment matters and health care, impacting our relationship with our customers or our workforce and adversely affecting our sales and operations. if we do not effectively design and implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop talent and future leaders, our business may suffer. we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace, and the talents of our workforce to execute our business strategies and objectives. we have succession plans in place and our board of directors reviews these succession plans. if our succession plans do not adequately cover significant and unanticipated turnover, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. additionally, our ability to maintain relationships with and motivate our employees and to effectively attract, develop and retain our future leaders, could be impacted by the uncertainty about the possibility of a going private transaction. our program agreement with td could adversely impact our business. the program agreement with td was consummated on terms that allow us to maintain customer-facing activities while td provides nordstrom-branded payment methods and payment processing services. if we fail to meet certain service levels, td has the right to assume certain individual servicing functions. if we lose control of such activities and functions, if we do not successfully respond to potential risks and appropriately manage potential costs associated with the program agreement with td, or if these transactions negatively impact the customer service associated with our cards, resulting in harm to our business reputation and competitive position, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. if td became unwilling or unable to provide these services or if there are changes to the risk management policies implemented under our program agreement with td, our results may be negatively impacted. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 9 table of contents ownership and leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. we own or lease the land and/or buildings for all of our stores and are therefore subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. in particular, the value of the assets could decrease, their operating costs could increase, or a store may not be opened as planned due to changes in the real estate market, demographic trends, site competition, dependence on third-party performance or overall economic environment. additionally, we are potentially subject to liability for environmental conditions, exit costs associated with disposal of a store, commitments to pay base rent for the entire lease term or operate a store for the duration of an operating covenant. investment and partnerships in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our core business. we have invested in or are pursuing strategic growth opportunities, which may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to provide a superior customer shopping experience in our stores and digital channels. additionally, our business model will continue to rely more on partnerships with third parties for certain strategic initiatives and technologies. if these investments, acquisitions or partnerships do not perform as expected or create operational difficulties, we may record impairment charges. if we do not realize our anticipated return on investments, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. if we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return. we utilize working capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict access to a potential source of liquidity. a deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in noncompliance with our debt covenants or a downgrade of our credit rating, constraining the financing available to our company. if our access to financing is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. the concentration of stock ownership in a small number of our shareholders could limit our shareholders' ability to influence corporate matters. we have regularly reported in our annual proxy statements the holdings of members of the nordstrom family, including bruce a. nordstrom, our former co-president and chairman of the board, his sister anne e. gittinger and members of the nordstrom family within our executive team. according to the schedule 13d/a filed with the sec on march 5, 2018, these individuals beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 31% of our common stock. as a result, either individually or acting together, they may be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. in addition, as reported in our periodic filings, our board of directors has from time to time authorized share repurchases. while these share repurchases may be offset in part by share issuances under our equity incentive plans and as consideration for acquisitions, the repurchases may nevertheless have the effect of increasing the overall percentage ownership held by these shareholders. the corporate law of the state of washington, where the company is incorporated, provides that approval of a merger or similar significant corporate transaction requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of a company's outstanding shares. the beneficial ownership of these shareholders may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, delay or otherwise prevent a significant corporate transaction because the consummation of any such transaction would likely require the approval of these shareholders. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be affected. risks due to economic and external market factors our revenues and operating results are affected by the seasonal nature of our business and cyclical trends in consumer spending. our business, like that of other retailers, is subject to seasonal fluctuations and cyclical trends in consumer spending. due to our anniversary sale in july and the holidays in the fourth quarter, our sales are typically higher in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters of the fiscal year. any factor that negatively impacts these selling seasons could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. to provide shareholders a better understanding of management's expectations surrounding results, we provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods comprised of forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. a downturn in economic conditions and other external market factors could have a significant adverse effect on our business and stock price . during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our websites, as these products may be seen as discretionary, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. this reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and an overly promotional environment or increased marketing and promotional spending. additionally, factors such as results differing from guidance, changes in sales and operating income in the peak seasons, changes in our market valuations, performance results for the general retail industry, announcements by us or our industry peers or changes in analysts' recommendations may still impact the price of our common stock and our shareholder returns. 10 table of contents our stores located in shopping malls may be adversely affected by any declines in consumer traffic of malls. the majority of our stores are located within shopping malls and benefit from the abilities that we and other anchor tenants have to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in mall traffic, the development of new shopping malls, the availability of locations within existing or new shopping malls, the success of individual shopping malls and the success of other anchor tenants may negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our sales in existing stores, as well as our ability to open new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our business depends on third parties for the production, supply or delivery of goods, and a disruption could result in lost sales or increased costs. the continued success of our operations is tied to our timely receipt of quality merchandise from third parties. our process to identify qualified vendors and access quality products in an efficient manner on acceptable terms and cost can be complex. violations of law with respect to quality and safety by our importers, manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods or damage our reputation, resulting in lost sales. these vendors may experience difficulties due to economic or political conditions or the countries in which merchandise is manufactured could become subject to new trade restrictions, including increased customs restrictions, tariffs or quotas. additionally, changes in tax and trade policies that impact the retail industry, such as increased taxation on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. the results of our credit operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. revenues earned under our program agreement with td are indirectly subject to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, demand for credit, consumer debt levels, payment patterns, delinquency rates, employment trends and other factors. changes in these economic and market conditions could impair our revenues and profitability. our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, port disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales, staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices, interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores, disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers, increased costs and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. we have a significant amount of our total sales, stores and square footage in the west coast of the united states, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to market-disrupting conditions in this region. risks due to legal and regulatory factors we are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, consumer protection and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. compliance with laws and regulations and/or significant legislative changes may cause our business to be adversely impacted, or even limit or restrict the activities of our business. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social, environmental and supply chain practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, losing our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws, which may affect our tax assets or liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. changes to accounting rules and regulations could affect our financial results or financial condition. accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide variety of accounting matters that are relevant to our business, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, merchandise inventories, leasing, goodwill, impairment of long-lived assets, stock-based compensation and tax matters are highly complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules and regulations, changes in our interpretation of the rules or regulations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could adversely affect our financial performance or financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 35risk factors. 9 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. in evaluating nordstrom and our business, you should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock or invest in our debt, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline or a default on our debt payments, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. risks due to strategic and operational factors our inability to successfully execute our customer strategy or evolve our business model could negatively impact our business and future profitability and growth. the retail environment is rapidly evolving with customer shopping preferences continuing to shift to digital channels. computers and mobile electronic devices allow customers to browse and transact anywhere and anytime. in this changing landscape, we continue to focus on better serving our customers through our three strategic pillars: providing a compelling product offering, delivering exceptional services and experiences, and leveraging the strength of the nordstrom brand. our customer strategy focuses on providing a differentiated and seamless experience in a digital world across all nordstrom channels, including mobile and social channels. our one nordstrom model, in which engagement across our four boxes of full-price, off-price, stores and digital encourages more visits and more spend, allows for our company as a whole to be greater than the sum of the parts. our local market strategy is an example of this where we bring all of our assets together in one market to serve customers when, where and how they want by connecting physical and digital assets. our focus on the customer will require us to execute new supply chain capabilities and enhance existing ones, develop applications for electronic devices, improve customer-facing technology, deliver digitally purchased products timely, enhance inventory management systems, allow greater and more fluid inventory availability between digital and retail locations through our local market strategy, and create greater consistency in marketing strategies. in addition, these strategies will require further expansion and reliance on data science and analytics across all our channels. this business model has a high variable cost structure driven by fulfillment and marketing costs and will continue to require investments in cross-channel operations and supporting technologies. with the accelerated pace of change in the retail environment, we may not be able to meet our customers' changing expectations of how they shop in stores or through digital experiences. if we do not successfully implement our customer strategy, including our local market strategy, or expand our digital and supply chain initiatives, or do not seamlessly integrate or maintain them properly, we may fall short of our customer's expectations, impacting our brand, reputation, profitability and growth. in addition, if customers shift to digital channels at a different pace than we anticipate, we may need to quickly modify our initiatives and investments, which may adversely impact our profitability and harm our competitive position. we also may not gather accurate and relevant data or effectively utilize that data, which may impact our strategic planning, marketing and loyalty programs and our overall decision making. our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces and changes in customer behavior. we compete with other international, national, regional and local retailers, including internet-based businesses, omni-channel department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores and boutiques, which may carry similar lines of merchandise. digital channels continue to facilitate comparison shopping, intensifying competition in the retail market, and marketing digitally is controlled by a few key platforms. if we fail to adequately anticipate and respond to customer and market dynamics, we may lose market share or our ability to remain competitive, causing our sales and profitability to suffer. if our loyalty marketing, advertising and promotional campaigns that attract customers through various programs and media, including social media, database marketing and print, are unsuccessful in influencing consumer behavior, or if our expenses increase and our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our growth and profitability could suffer. if we do not properly allocate our capital between the store and digital environment, or between the full-price and off-price channels to accommodate changes in consumer behavior, or adjust the effectiveness and efficiency of our stores and digital channels, our growth and profitability could suffer. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 9 table of contents our customer relationships and sales may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends or manage inventory levels appropriately. our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. ensuring we optimize our inventory and improve the planning and management of inventory through use of data and analytics is critical to serving the customer, driving growth and maximizing profitability. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and potentially harm relationships with our customers. the investment in existing and new locations, including our nordstrom men's store nyc and nordstrom nyc and supply chain network facilities, may not achieve our expected returns. the locations of our existing stores, planned store openings and supply chain network facilities are assessed based upon desirability, demographics and retail environment. this involves certain risks, including properly balancing our capital investments between new stores, relocations, remodels, fulfillment capabilities, technology and digital channels, assessing the suitability of locations, especially in new domestic and international markets, and constructing, furnishing and supplying a store or facility in a timely and cost-effective manner, which may be affected by the actions of third parties, including but not limited to private entities and local, state or federal regulatory agencies. in particular, we opened our nordstrom men's store nyc in april 2018 and plan to open nordstrom nyc in october 2019. we open our stores in the spring and fall, and a delay in a store opening could negatively impact sales and profitability. sales at our stores may not meet projections, particularly in light of the changing trends between digital and brick-and-mortar shopping channels, which could adversely affect our return on investment. as we enter new domestic and international markets, such as manhattan and canada, our efforts will require additional management attention and resources and may distract us from executing our core operations. if we do not select effective locations for our supply chain network facilities, we could incur significantly higher costs and shipping times that do not meet customer expectations, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information, network and environment from security breaches, our customers, employees and business could still be exposed to risk. nordstrom, our subsidiaries and third-party providers access, collect, store and transmit customers' and employees' sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, consumer preferences and credit card information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations, as well as our financial and strategic data. security breaches of this information may be the result of intentional or inadvertent activities by our employees, contractors or by third-party providers that may result in the unauthorized release of customer or employee personal or confidential information. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements imposed by local, state, federal and foreign governments. worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning privacy and data protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. for example, following the european union's adoption of the general data protection regulation, a number of jurisdictions where we do business have enacted or are considering new privacy and data protection laws. complying with these changing laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, failure to comply with existing or new laws may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. we have taken measures to help prevent a breach of our information and comply with cybersecurity requirements by implementing safeguards and procedures designed to protect the security, confidentiality and access of such information. in addition, where possible, we require our third-party providers to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards and procedures to protect the security, confidentiality and availability of our information. we have suffered breaches of our cybersecurity in the past and are at risk for such breaches in the future. any measures we or our third-party providers have implemented to prevent intentional or inadvertent information security breaches may not be completely effective and may nevertheless result in the unauthorized release of customer, employee or company confidential information. concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at nordstrom, our third-party providers or other retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of personal or confidential information, litigation, investigation, regulatory enforcement action, fines, information technology system failures or network disruptions, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers', employees' or third-party providers' trust and business, any of which could adversely impact our reputation, competitiveness and financial performance. in the event of a significant security breach or cyberattack, we maintain insurance that may mitigate damages such as financial losses and remediation costs. other impacts include higher insurance deductibles, increased insurance premiums, and increased cyber-protection costs, which may include the costs associated with making organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees and engaging third party experts and consultants. 10 table of contents our business may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions. our ability to transact with customers and operate our business depends on the efficient operation of various information systems, including data centers, hardware, software and applications, to manage certain aspects of our company, including store and online transactions, logistics and communication, inventory and reporting systems. we seek to build quality systems or select reputable system vendors and we implement procedures intended to enable us to protect our systems when we modify them. we test our systems to expose and address vulnerabilities, and we train our employees regarding practices to protect and maintain the safety of our systems. there are inherent risks associated with modifying or replacing systems, and with new or changed relationships, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the operation of the systems as the changes are implemented. potential issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required to optimize the benefits of new elements of our systems and infrastructure could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. if we encounter an interruption or deterioration in critical systems or processes or experience the loss of critical data, which may result from security or cybersecurity threats or attacks, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or third-party or other disruptions, our business could be harmed or our digital activity may decrease because it is more difficult to use. depending on the severity of the failure, our disaster recovery plans may be inadequate or ineffective. these events could also damage our reputation, result in loss of sales and be expensive to remedy. improvements to our merchandise buying and fulfillment processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed. we are making investments to improve our merchandise planning, procurement, allocation and fulfillment capabilities through changes in personnel, processes, location logistics and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, features or capabilities, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy or evolve our strategy with changes in the retail environment could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations. our customer, employee and vendor relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation. we have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons customers shop with us and employees choose us as a place of employment. any significant damage to our reputation, including damages arising from factors outside our control or on social media, could diminish customer trust, weaken our vendor relationships, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. additionally, management may not accurately assess the impact of significant legislative changes, including those that relate to privacy, employment matters and health care, impacting our relationship with our customers or our workforce and adversely affecting our sales and operations. if we do not effectively design and implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop talent and future leaders, our business may suffer. we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace, and the talents of our workforce to execute our business strategies and objectives. we have succession plans in place and our board of directors reviews these succession plans. if our succession plans do not adequately cover significant and unanticipated turnover, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. our program agreement with td could adversely impact our business. the program agreement with td was consummated on terms that allow us to maintain customer-facing activities while td provides nordstrom-branded payment methods and payment processing services. if we fail to meet certain service levels, td has the right to assume certain individual servicing functions including managing accounts and collection activities. if we lose control of such activities and functions, if we do not successfully respond to potential risks and appropriately manage potential costs associated with the program agreement with td, or if these transactions negatively impact the customer service associated with our cards, resulting in harm to our business reputation and competitive position, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. if td became unwilling or unable to provide these services or if there are changes to the risk management policies implemented under our program agreement with td, our results may be negatively impacted. if we lose control over certain servicing functions and td is unable to successfully manage accounts and collection activities, it may heighten the risk of credit losses. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 11 table of contents ownership and leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. we own or lease the land, buildings and equipment for all of our stores and supply chain network facilities and are therefore subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. in particular, the value of the assets could decrease, their operating costs could increase, or a store or facility may not be opened as planned due to changes in the real estate market, demographic trends, site competition, dependence on third-party performance or overall economic environment. additionally, we are potentially subject to liability for environmental conditions, exit costs associated with disposal of a store and commitments to pay base rent for the entire lease term or operate a store for the duration of an operating covenant. investment and partnerships in new business strategies and acquisitions could disrupt our core business. we have invested in or are pursuing strategic growth opportunities, which may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to provide a superior customer shopping experience in our stores and digital channels. additionally, our business model will continue to rely more on partnerships with third parties for certain strategic initiatives and technologies. if these investments, acquisitions or partnerships do not perform as expected or create operational difficulties, we may record impairment charges. if we do not realize our anticipated return on investments, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. if we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return. we utilize working capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict access to a potential source of liquidity. a deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in noncompliance with our debt covenants or a downgrade of our credit rating, constraining the financing available to our company. if our access to financing is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. the concentration of stock ownership in a small number of our shareholders could limit our shareholders' ability to influence corporate matters. we have regularly reported in our annual proxy statements the holdings of members of the nordstrom family, including bruce a. nordstrom, our former co-president and chairman of the board, his sister anne e. gittinger and members of the nordstrom family within our executive team. according to the schedule 13d/a filed with the sec on february 4, 2019, these individuals beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 31% of our common stock. as a result, either individually or acting together, they may be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. in addition, as reported in our periodic filings, our board of directors has from time to time authorized share repurchases. while these share repurchases may be offset in part by share issuances under our equity incentive plans and as consideration for acquisitions, the repurchases may nevertheless have the effect of increasing the overall percentage ownership held by these shareholders. the corporate law of the state of washington, where the company is incorporated, provides that approval of a merger or similar significant corporate transaction requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of a company's outstanding shares. the beneficial ownership of these shareholders may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, delay or otherwise prevent a significant corporate transaction because the consummation of any such transaction would likely require the approval of these shareholders. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be affected. risks due to economic and external market factors our revenues and operating results are affected by the seasonal nature of our business and cyclical trends in consumer spending. our business, like that of other retailers, is subject to seasonal fluctuations and cyclical trends in consumer spending. due to our anniversary sale in july and the holidays in the fourth quarter, our sales are typically higher in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters of the fiscal year. any factor that negatively impacts these selling seasons could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. to provide shareholders a better understanding of management's expectations surrounding results, we provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods comprised of forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. a downturn in economic conditions and other external market factors could have a significant adverse effect on our business and stock price . during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our websites, as these products may be seen as discretionary, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. this reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and an overly promotional environment or increased marketing and promotional spending. additionally, factors such as results differing from guidance, changes in sales and operating income in the peak seasons, changes in our market valuations, performance results for the general retail industry, announcements by us or our industry peers or changes in analysts' recommendations may cause volatility in the price of our common stock and our shareholder returns. 12 table of contents our stores located in shopping centers may be adversely affected by any declines in consumer traffic of shopping centers. the majority of our stores are located within shopping centers and benefit from the abilities that we and other anchor tenants have to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in shopping center traffic, the development of new shopping centers, the lack of availability of favorable locations within existing or new shopping centers, the success of individual shopping centers and the success of other anchor tenants may negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our sales in existing stores, as well as our ability to open new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our business depends on third parties for the production, supply or delivery of goods, and a disruption could result in lost sales or increased costs. timely receipts of quality merchandise from third parties is critical to our business. our process to identify qualified vendors and access quality products in an efficient manner on acceptable terms and cost can be complex. violations of law with respect to quality and safety by our importers, manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods or damage our reputation, resulting in lost sales. these vendors may experience difficulties due to economic, political or environmental conditions or the countries in which merchandise is manufactured could become subject to new trade restrictions, including increased customs restrictions, tariffs or quotas. additionally, changes in tax and trade policies that impact the retail industry, such as increased taxation on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. the results from our credit card operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions or laws. revenues earned under our program agreement with td are indirectly subject to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, demand for credit, consumer debt levels, payment patterns, delinquency rates, employment trends, laws and other factors. changes in these economic and market conditions could impair our revenues and profitability. our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, port disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales, staffing shortages in our stores, supply chain network facilities or corporate offices, interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores, disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers, increased costs and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. we have a significant amount of our total sales, stores and square footage in the west coast of the united states, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to any market-disrupting conditions in this region. risks due to legal and regulatory factors we are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and compliance or our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, tariffs, rules and regulations, including those imposed by federal, state and local jurisdictions, the sec, consumer protection and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. compliance with laws and regulations and/or significant legislative changes may cause our business to be adversely impacted, or even limit or restrict the activities of our business. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social, environmental and supply chain practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, regulatory investigations, legal and settlement costs, charges and payments, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, losing our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. new and emerging privacy and data protection laws may increase compliance expenses and limit business opportunities and strategic initiatives, including customer engagement. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws, which may affect our tax assets or liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. changes to accounting rules and regulations could affect our financial results or financial condition. accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide variety of accounting matters that are relevant to our business, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, merchandise inventories, leasing, impairment of long-lived assets and tax matters are highly complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules and regulations, changes in our interpretation of the rules or regulations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could adversely affect our financial performance or financial position. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 34risk factors. 11 risk factors to our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended february 1, 2020 , could affect our financial results and cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. you should read this annual report on form 10-k completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. we hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. all references to nordstrom, we, us, our, or the company mean nordstrom, inc. and its subsidiaries. in addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. these statements are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this annual report on form 10-k, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. these statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 5 table of contents definitions the following table includes definitions of nordstrom commonly used terms: term definition 2002 plan 2002 nonemployee director stock incentive plan 2010 plan 2010 equity incentive plan 2019 plan 2019 equity incentive plan 2019 annual report annual report on form 10-k filed on march 20, 2020 adjusted ebitda adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (a non-gaap financial measure) adjusted ebitdar adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent (a non-gaap financial measure) adjusted roic adjusted return on invested capital (a non-gaap financial measure) asc accounting standards codification asu accounting standards update codm chief operating decision maker estimated non-recurring charge estimated non-recurring credit-related charge recognized during the third quarter of 2018 digital sales online and digitally assisted store sales, which include online order pickup, ship to store and style board, a digital selling tool ebit earnings before interest and income taxes eps earnings per share espp employee stock purchase plan exchange act securities exchange act of 1934, as amended express services full-price order pickups and returns offered at certain nordstrom rack stores fasb financial accounting standards board fiscal year 2019 52 fiscal weeks ended february 1, 2020 fiscal year 2018 52 fiscal weeks ended february 2, 2019 fiscal year 2017 53 fiscal weeks ended february 3, 2018 fiscal year 2016 52 fiscal weeks ended january 28, 2017 fiscal year 2015 52 fiscal weeks ended january 30, 2016 fls full-line stores full-price nordstrom u.s. fls, nordstrom.com, canada, trunk club, jeffrey and nordstrom local gaap generally accepted accounting principles generational investments nrhl, canada, trunk club and nordstrom nyc gross profit net sales less cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs inventory turnover rate trailing 4-quarter cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs divided by the trailing 4-quarter average inventory lease standard asu no. 2016-02, leases, and all related amendments (asc 842) libor london inter-bank offered rate md&amp;a management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations nordstrom local nordstrom local service hubs, which offer full-price order pickups, returns, alterations and other services nordstrom nyc our new york city flagship fls, including the men's location the nordy club our customer loyalty program enhanced in october 2018 nrhl nordstromrack.com/hautelook nyse new york stock exchange off-price nordstrom u.s. rack stores, nrhl and last chance clearance stores operating lease cost fixed rent expense, including fixed common area maintenance expense, net of developer reimbursement amortization pcaob public company accounting oversight board (united states) property incentives developer and vendor reimbursements psu performance share unit revenue standard asu no. 2014-09, revenue from contracts with customers, and all related amendments (asc 606) revolver senior unsecured revolving credit facility rou asset operating lease right-of-use asset rsu restricted stock unit sec securities and exchange commission serp unfunded defined benefit supplemental executive retirement plan sg&amp;a selling, general and administrative supply chain network fulfillment centers that primarily process and ship orders to our customers, distribution centers that primarily process and ship merchandise to our stores and other facilities and omni-channel centers that both fulfill customer orders and ship merchandise to our stores tax act tax cuts and jobs act td toronto-dominion bank, n.a. 6 table of contents part i item 1. business. description of business founded in 1901 as a retail shoe business in seattle, nordstrom later incorporated in washington state in 1946 and went on to become one of the leading fashion retailers based in the u.s. we aspire to be the best fashion retailer in a digitally-connected world by remaining focused on our customers, serving them through our three strategic pillars: providing a compelling product offering, delivering outstanding services and experiences and leveraging the strength of the nordstrom brand. we offer an extensive selection of high-quality brand-name and private label merchandise focused on apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories. no matter how customers choose to shop, we are committed to delivering the best possible service, product and experience, including alterations, order pickup, dining and styling, to make shopping fun, personalized and convenient. we invested early in our omni-channel capabilities, integrating our operations, merchandising and technology across our stores and online, in both our full-price and off-price businesses. we have more than 60 combinations in which merchandise can be ordered, fulfilled and delivered. though this has enabled us to serve customers in multiple ways, we are focused on providing a seamless experience for our customer across stores and online. we view our business as one reportable retail segment, which aligns with how management operates, evaluates and views the results of our operations. for more information about our business and our reportable segments, see item 7: md&amp;a and note 16: segment reporting in item 8 . as of march 20, 2020 , our reportable segment, retail, includes: full-price 110 nordstrom-branded fls in the u.s. six fls and six rack stores in canada full-price nordstrom.com website and mobile application trunkclub.com website and six trunk club clubhouses three jeffrey boutiques five nordstrom locals our full-price operating segment is a combination of physical and digital retail assets. this combination of retail platforms and services allows us to provide our customers with a unique and seamless shopping experience, engaging them on their terms. we continue to evolve our full-price business, blurring the lines between the digital and in-store experience. this primarily includes traditional in-store and online shopping, ship-to or pickup from a store of choice, and try on at home and pay only for what is kept, among various other personalized services including convenient access to alterations. as our full-price business evolves, our market strategy leverages our inventory to serve customers on their terms through investments in digital capabilities and in people, product and place. our goal is to gain market share while driving customer engagement and inventory efficiencies. there are two elements to this strategy: first, we provide customers a greater selection of merchandise available for next-day pickup or delivery, without increasing inventory levels. second, we are increasing engagement with customers by offering express services such as order pickup, returns and alterations at additional convenient locations. we accelerated our strategy to five of our top markets new york, los angeles, chicago, dallas and san francisco in 2019 and will expand our strategy into five additional markets in 2020, including philadelphia, washington, d.c., boston, seattle and toronto. in addition, we are integrating trunk club into nordstrom full-line stores and nordstrom.com to create a cohesive styling offering across nordstrom and to gain efficiencies. off-price 242 off-price nordstrom rack stores in the u.s. off-price nrhl website and mobile application two last chance clearance stores in off-price, nordstrom rack and nordstromrack.com purchase merchandise primarily from the same vendors carried in our full-price channel and also serve as outlets for clearance merchandise from the full-price channel. nrhl offers both a persistent selection of off-price merchandise, as well as limited-time flash sale events on fashion and lifestyle brands. nordstromrack.com combines the technology expertise of hautelook with the merchant expertise of nordstrom rack. fiscal year we operate on a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the saturday closest to january 31st. references to 2019 and all years except 2017 within this document are based on a 52-week fiscal year, while 2017 is based on a 53-week fiscal year. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents return policy we have a fair and reasonable approach to returns, handling them on a case-by-case basis with the ultimate objective of making our customers happy. we have no formal policy on how long we accept returns at nordstrom fls or nordstrom.com. our goal is to take care of our customers, which includes making returns and exchanges easy, whether in stores or online, where we offer free shipping on purchases and returns. trunk club accepts returns within five days of delivery, which are free for the customer if the items are returned in the box provided by trunk club with the original price tag and packaging. trunks can also be returned at any nordstrom fls. our nordstrom rack stores and nrhl generally accept returns of apparel, footwear, accessories and home products up to 45 days from the date of purchase or date of shipment with the original price tag and sales receipt. off-price merchandise can be returned by mail or at any nordstrom rack store location. seasonality our business, like that of other retailers, is subject to seasonal fluctuations. our sales are typically higher during our anniversary sale in july and the holidays in the fourth quarter. beginning in 2018, our anniversary sale occurred in our second fiscal quarter. in 2017, our anniversary sale occurred in the second and third fiscal quarters. results for any one quarter are not indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. working capital our working capital requirements are funded primarily through cash flows generated from operations. in addition, we have access to the commercial paper market and can draw on our revolving credit facilities for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. consistent with our seasonal fluctuations, our working capital requirements have historically increased during the months leading up to the anniversary sale and the holidays as we purchase inventory in anticipation of increased sales. refer to the liquidity and capital resources section in item 7: md&amp;a for more detailed information. loyalty program we evolved our customer loyalty program with the launch of the nordy club in october 2018, which incorporates a traditional point system and the favorite benefits of our previous program, while providing customers exclusive access to products and events, enhanced services, personalized experiences and more convenient ways to shop. customers accumulate points based on their level of spending and type of participation. upon reaching certain point thresholds, customers receive nordstrom notes, which can be redeemed for goods or services offered at nordstrom fls, nordstrom.com, nordstrom rack and nrhl. nordstrom cardmembers can also earn rewards at trunk club. the nordy club member benefits will vary based on the level of customer spend, and include bonus points days and shopping and fashion events. we offer customers access to a variety of payment products and services, including a selection of nordstrom-branded visa credit cards in the u.s. and canada, as well as a nordstrom-branded private label credit card for nordstrom purchases. when customers use a nordstrom-branded credit or debit card, they also participate in the nordy club and receive additional benefits, which can vary depending on the level of spend, including early access to the anniversary sale, nordstrom to you (an in-home stylist) and incremental accumulation of points toward nordstrom notes. competitive conditions we operate in a highly competitive business environment. we compete with other international, national, regional and local retailers, including internet-based businesses, omni-channel department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores and boutiques, which may carry similar lines of merchandise. our specific competitors vary from market to market. we believe the keys to competing in our industry are what will always matter most to our customers: providing compelling product and outstanding service, both digitally and in stores, backed by people who care. this includes serving customers on their terms by providing a seamless digital and physical experience, offering compelling, curated and quality products across a range of price points, and strategically partnering with relevant and limited distribution brands, all in top markets. 8 table of contents supply chain network our supply chain network consists of: fulfillment centers that primarily process and ship orders to our customers distribution centers that primarily process and ship merchandise to our stores and other facilities omni-channel centers that both fulfill customer orders and ship merchandise to our stores. we expanded our supply chain network facilities and enhanced our inventory management systems to support our omni-channel capabilities and provide greater access to merchandise selection and faster delivery. we select locations and customize inventory allocations to enable merchandise to flow more efficiently and quickly to our customers. full-price online purchases are primarily shipped to our customers from our fulfillment centers but may also be shipped from our nordstrom fls, distribution centers or omni-channel centers. full-price in-store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store's inventory, but when inventory is unavailable at that store, it may also be shipped to our customers from our fulfillment centers, distribution centers, omni-channel centers, or from other nordstrom fls. off-price online purchases are shipped to our customers from our fulfillment centers and distribution centers. both businesses selectively use vendor dropship to supplement their online offerings, which are then shipped directly from the vendor to the end customer. our first large-scale omni-channel center in riverside, california will initially support our full-price customers in the west coast region and is expected to open in spring 2020. off-price inventory and fulfillment will be added to this facility in the future. our smaller local omni-channel hub in torrance, california was opened in 2019 and supports the greater los angeles market as part of our market strategy and will have highly curated inventory that serves the specialized needs of that market. inventory we plan our merchandise purchases and receipts to coincide with expected sales trends. for instance, our merchandise purchases and receipts increase prior to our anniversary sale, which has historically extended over the last two weeks of july. we purchase and receive a larger amount of merchandise in the fall as we prepare for the holiday shopping season (from late november through december). at nordstrom rack, we invest in pack and hold inventory, which involves the strategic purchase of merchandise from some of our top full-price brands in advance of the upcoming selling seasons, to take advantage of favorable buying opportunities. this inventory is typically held for six months on average. in order to offer merchandise that our customers want, we purchase from a wide variety of high-quality domestic and foreign suppliers. we also have arrangements with agents and contract manufacturers to produce our private label merchandise. employees during 2019 , we employed approximately 68,000 employees on a full- or part-time basis. due to the seasonal nature of our business, employment increased to approximately 75,000 in december 2019 due to the holidays. all of our employees are non-union. we believe our relationship with our employees is good. trademarks our most notable trademarks include nordstrom, nordstrom rack, hautelook, trunk club, halogen, bp., zella, caslon, 1901, treasure &amp; bond and tucker+tate. each of our trademarks is renewable indefinitely, provided it is still used in commerce at the time of the renewal. sec filings we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the sec. the sec maintains a website at sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the sec. website access our website address is nordstrom.com. our annual and quarterly reports on form 10-k and form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements, our executives' statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities on form 4 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act are available for free on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the report with or furnish it to the sec. interested parties may also access a webcast of quarterly earnings conference calls and other financial events through our website. corporate responsibility we continue to evolve our approach to corporate social responsibility to deliver on our core intention to leave it better than we found it. we are reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by making regular investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy and fuel efficiency. we are making choices that help us conserve resources like water, paper and food. recyclable paper and corrugated cardboard, our two largest waste streams, have continued to be recycled domestically. as a sign of our continued commitment, we are proud to have joined the g7 fashion pact, a new coalition of 56 fashion companies that is working to identify and promote goals that will reduce our impact on the climate, biodiversity and the oceans. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 9 table of contents we are also including more sustainable products in our merchandise assortment and helping customers make responsible choices with items they are no longer using. we keep clothing out of landfills by extending their useful life, through our clothing donation program, and with the launch of our new sustainable style section on nordstrom.com, customers can easily shop for products that use more sustainable raw materials and that are made in factories with higher social and environmental standards. through our charitable giving efforts, we support hundreds of nonprofit organizations and donate millions of dollars to organizations and programs that empower youth, support children and care for families. our nordstrom made brand treasure &amp; bond donates 2.5% of net sales to nonprofits that empower youth. in 2019, we made our largest-ever annual donation of more than $1 million, bringing our total treasure &amp; bond donation to more than $5 million since the brand launched in 2014. we are working to protect human rights for individuals across our value chain, from our employees to the people who manufacture the products we sell. in march of 2020, we announced a new goal to have 90% of our nordstrom made products be produced in factories that support women's empowerment by 2025. we formalized our corporate human rights commitment and have robust partnership guidelines to ensure we work with vendor partners who share our commitment to producing quality products through the use of ethical business practices. we are also committed to creating an inclusive environment where all employees can be themselves, contribute their ideas and do their best work. we are proud to have achieved 100% pay equity for employees of all genders and races, and we are close to achieving pay parity median pay for women across the company being equal to the median pay for men. for more information on our corporate responsibility strategy and efforts, please refer to the sharing our progress report available at nordstromcares.com. corporate governance we have a long-standing commitment to upholding a high level of ethical standards. in addition, we have adopted codes of business conduct and ethics for our employees, officers and directors and corporate governance guidelines, which comply with the listing standards of the nyse and sec requirements. our codes of business conduct and ethics, corporate governance guidelines and committee charters for the following board of director committees are available through our website: audit and finance compensation, people and culture corporate governance and nominating technology any amendments to these documents, or waivers of the requirements they contain, will also be available on our website. for printed versions of these items or any other inquiries, please contact: nordstrom investor relations 1700 seventh avenue, suite 1500 seattle, washington 98101 (206) 303-3200 invrelations@nordstrom.com 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. in evaluating nordstrom and our business, you should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other information in this 2019 annual report . before you buy our common stock or invest in our debt, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline or a default on our debt payments, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. risks due to strategic and operational factors our inability to successfully execute our customer strategy or evolve our business model could negatively impact our business and future profitability and growth. the retail environment is rapidly evolving. customer shopping preferences continue to shift, including to digital channels, reducing traffic in malls, as well as the emergence of rental and recommerce companies and other brands that are not traditional retailers. in this changing landscape, we continue to focus on better serving our customers through our three strategic pillars: providing a compelling product offering, delivering exceptional services and experiences, and leveraging the strength of the nordstrom brand. our customer strategy focuses on providing a differentiated and seamless experience in a digital world across all nordstrom businesses, including mobile and social channels. our one nordstrom model, in which engagement across our four boxes of full-price, off-price, stores and digital encourages more visits and more spend, allows for our company as a whole to be greater than the sum of the parts. our market strategy is an example of this where we bring all of our assets together in one market to serve customers when, where and how they want by connecting physical and digital assets. our focus on the customer will require us to execute new supply chain capabilities and enhance existing ones, develop applications for electronic devices, improve customer-facing technology, deliver digitally purchased products timely, enhance inventory management systems and allow greater and more fluid inventory availability between digital and retail locations through our market strategy. in addition, these strategies will require further expansion and reliance on data science and analytics. this business model has a highly variable cost structure driven by fulfillment and marketing costs and will continue to require investments in cross-channel operations and supporting technologies. if we do not successfully implement our customer strategy, including thoroughly understanding and delivering on our customer needs and wants, effectively integrating our stores and digital channels and scaling our market strategy, expanding our supply chain initiatives, and efficiently getting product to our customers, we may fall short of our customers' expectations, impacting our brand, reputation, profitability and growth. our business could suffer if we do not appropriately assess and react to competitive market forces and changes in customer behavior. we compete with other international, national, regional and local retailers, including internet-based businesses, omni-channel department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores and boutiques, which may carry similar lines of merchandise. digital channels continue to facilitate comparison shopping, intensifying competition in the retail market, and marketing digitally is controlled by a few key platforms. if we fail to adequately anticipate and respond to customer and market dynamics, we may lose market share or our ability to remain competitive, causing our sales and profitability to suffer. if the efficiency and allocation of loyalty marketing, advertising and promotional campaigns that attract customers through various programs and media, including digital media and print, is unsuccessful in influencing consumer behavior in our stores and digital channels, or if our competitors are more effective with their programs than we are, our growth and profitability could suffer. we also may not gather accurate and relevant data or effectively utilize that data, which may impact our strategic planning, marketing and loyalty programs and our overall decision making. in addition, if we do not efficiently scale our business, or if customers shift to digital channels at a different pace than we anticipate, we may need to quickly modify our initiatives and investments in our store and digital environments, or in our full-price and off-price businesses to accommodate changes in consumer behavior and expectations, which may adversely impact our growth and profitability. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 11 table of contents our customer relationships and sales may be negatively impacted if we do not anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends or manage inventory levels appropriately. our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns significantly impacts our sales and operating results. in addition, we expanded our brand partnership model, including strategic brands, recommerce, wholesale, and vertical brands, to curate an assortment that offers newness. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, identify the right partners that align with our customer strategy, or develop, evolve, and retain our team's talent, mindset and technical skills to support changing operating models, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. ensuring we optimize our inventory and improve the planning and management of inventory through use of data and analytics is critical to serving the customer, driving growth and maximizing profitability. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and potentially harm relationships with our customers. the investment in existing and new locations may not achieve our expected returns. the locations of our existing stores, planned store openings and relocations and supply chain network facilities are assessed based upon desirability, demographics and retail environment. in particular, we are expanding our market strategy, where we leverage and connect our physical and digital assets in one market to seamlessly serve our customer, and select physical locations to create synergies between our stores and our supply chain network. additionally, we must equip our locations with the proper processes, technology and tools for timely and accurate fulfillment and inventory replenishment. this involves certain risks, including properly balancing our capital investments between new stores, relocations, remodels, fulfillment capabilities, technology and digital channels, assessing the suitability of locations, in new domestic and international markets, and constructing, furnishing and supplying a store or facility in a timely and cost-effective manner, which may be affected by the actions of third parties, including but not limited to private entities and local, state or federal regulatory agencies. customers' expectations regarding speed of delivery are evolving. if we do not effectively integrate our physical and digital assets as part of our market strategy, or select locations to optimize our market strategy, we could incur significantly higher costs and shipping times that do not meet customer expectations, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. particularly in light of the changing trends between digital and brick-and-mortar shopping channels, sales at our stores or through our digital channels may not meet projections, which could adversely affect our return on investment. if we do not properly allocate capital expenditures between locations, or maintain them properly, customer expectations may not be met and we may lose sales. even if we take appropriate measures to use or safeguard our information, network and environment from security breaches, our customers, employees and business could still be exposed to risk. nordstrom, our subsidiaries and third-party providers access, collect, store and transmit sensitive and confidential company, customer, and employee data and information, including consumer preferences and credit card information, all of which are subject to demanding and constantly changing privacy and security laws and regulations. a number of jurisdictions where we do business have enacted or are considering new privacy and data protection laws which impact our responsibilities with respect to this data, such as the california consumer privacy act. we have taken measures to help prevent a breach of our information and comply with cybersecurity requirements by implementing safeguards and procedures designed to protect the security, confidentiality and access of such information. in addition, where possible, we require our third-party providers to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards and procedures. we, and several of our vendors, have suffered breaches of our cybersecurity in the past and are at risk for such breaches in the future. any measures we or our third-party providers have implemented to prevent intentional or inadvertent information security breaches may not be completely effective. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at nordstrom, our third-party providers or other retailers, could expose us to a risk of loss or unauthorized release of customer, employee or company confidential information, litigation, investigation, regulatory enforcement action, penalties and fines, orders to stop any alleged noncompliant activity, information technology system failures or network disruptions, increased cyber-protection and remediation costs, financial losses, potential liability, or loss of customers', employees' or third-party providers' trust and business, any of which could adversely impact our reputation, competitiveness and financial performance. concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. our business may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions. our ability to transact with customers and operate our business depends on the efficient operation of various information systems, including data centers, hardware, software and applications, to manage certain aspects of our company, including store and online transactions, logistics and communication, inventory and reporting systems. we seek to build quality systems, select reputable system vendors and implement procedures intended to enable us to protect our systems when we modify them. we test our systems to address vulnerabilities and train our employees regarding practices to protect the safety of our systems. 12 table of contents there are inherent risks associated with modifying or replacing systems, and with new or changed relationships, including accurately capturing and maintaining data, realizing the expected benefit of the change and managing the potential disruption of the operation of the systems as the changes are implemented. potential issues associated with implementing technology initiatives and the time and resources required to optimize the benefits of new elements of our systems and infrastructure could reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. if we encounter an interruption or deterioration in critical systems or processes or experience the loss of critical data, which may result from security or cybersecurity threats or attacks, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or third-party or other disruptions, our business could be harmed or our digital activity may decrease because it is more difficult to use. depending on the severity of the failure, our disaster recovery plans may be inadequate or ineffective. these events could also damage our reputation, result in loss of sales and be expensive to remedy. improvements to our merchandise buying and fulfillment processes and systems could adversely affect our business if not successfully executed. our business depends on accuracy throughout our product flow process. we are making investments to streamline and standardize our merchandise planning, procurement, allocation and fulfillment capabilities through changes in personnel, processes, location logistics and technology. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, inventory integrity and implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, features or capabilities, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy or evolve our strategy with changes in the retail environment could be adversely affected. or, if we are unable to maintain accurate, reliable and effective inventory tracking systems, it may result in canceled orders and we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current expectations. our customer, employee and vendor relationships could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain our corporate culture and reputation. we have a well-recognized culture and reputation that consumers may associate with a high level of integrity, customer service and quality merchandise, and it is one of the reasons customers shop with us and employees choose us as a place of employment. any significant damage to our reputation, including damages arising from our business or privacy practices, or factors outside our control or on social media, could diminish customer trust, weaken our vendor relationships, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees. additionally, management may not accurately assess the impact of significant legislative changes, including those that relate to privacy, employment matters and health care, impacting our relationship with our customers or our workforce and adversely affecting our sales and operations. if we do not effectively design and implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop talent and future leaders, our business may suffer. we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace, to execute our business strategies and objectives. we have succession plans in place and our board of directors reviews these succession plans. if our succession plans do not adequately cover significant and unanticipated turnover, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any resulting negative perceptions of our business, could damage our reputation and our business. additionally, our success depends on the talents and abilities of our workforce in all areas of our business, especially personnel that can adapt to complexities and grow their skillset across the changing environment. our ability to successfully execute our customer strategy depends on acquiring, developing and retaining qualified talent with diverse sets of skills. if we are unable to offer competitive compensation and benefits, appropriate training, or a compelling work environment, our culture may be adversely affected, our reputation may be damaged, and we may incur costs related to turnover. our program agreement with td, or changes to that agreement, could adversely impact our business. the program agreement with td was consummated on terms that allow us to maintain customer-facing activities while td provides nordstrom-branded payment methods and payment processing services. if we fail to meet certain service levels, td has the right to assume certain individual servicing functions including managing accounts and collection activities. if we lose control of such activities and functions, if we do not successfully respond to potential risks and appropriately manage potential costs associated with the program agreement with td, or if these transactions negatively impact the customer service associated with our cards, resulting in harm to our business reputation and competitive position, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. the program agreement requires us to hold collateral depending on our credit ratings and as a result, a significant downgrade may adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow position. if, upon expiration of our current program agreement in 2022, a new contract has less favorable terms, our results could be negatively impacted. if td became unwilling or unable to provide these services or if there are changes to the risk management policies implemented under our program agreement with td, our results may be negatively impacted. if we lose control over certain servicing functions and td is unable to successfully manage accounts and collection activities, it may heighten the risk of credit losses. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 13 table of contents owning and leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. we own or lease the land, buildings and equipment for all of our stores and supply chain network facilities and are therefore subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. in particular, the value of the assets could decrease, their operating costs could increase, or a store or facility may not be opened as planned due to changes in the real estate market, demographic trends, site competition, dependence on third-party performance or overall economic environment. additionally, we are potentially subject to liability for environmental conditions, exit costs associated with disposal of a store and commitments to pay base rent for the entire lease term or operate a store for the duration of an operating covenant. if we fail to appropriately manage our capital, we may negatively impact our operations and shareholder return. we utilize working capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict access to a potential source of liquidity. a deterioration in our capital structure or the quality and stability of our earnings could result in noncompliance with our debt covenants or a downgrade of our credit rating, constraining the financing available to us. if our access to financing is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. the concentration of stock ownership in a small number of our shareholders may limit a shareholder's ability to influence corporate matters and impact the price of our shares. we have regularly reported in our annual proxy statements the holdings of members of the nordstrom family, including bruce a. nordstrom, our former co-president and chairman of the board, his sister anne e. gittinger and members of the nordstrom family within our executive team. as of february 29, 2020, these individuals beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 31% of our common stock. as a result, either individually or acting together, they may be able to exercise considerable influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors or other matters impacting our management or corporate governance. in addition, as reported in our periodic filings, our board of directors has from time to time authorized share repurchases. while these share repurchases may be offset in part by share issuances under our equity incentive plans and as consideration for acquisitions, the repurchases may nevertheless have the effect of increasing the overall percentage ownership held by these shareholders. the corporate law of the state of washington, where the company is incorporated, provides that approval of a merger or similar significant corporate transaction requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of a company's outstanding shares. the interests of these shareholders may differ from the interests of our shareholders as a whole, and the beneficial ownership of these shareholders may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us, delay or otherwise prevent a significant corporate transaction because the consummation of any such transaction would likely require their approval. as a result of any of these factors, the market price of our common stock may be affected. risks due to economic and external market factors our revenues and operating results are affected by the seasonal nature of our business and cyclical trends in consumer spending. our business, like that of other retailers, is subject to seasonal fluctuations and cyclical trends in consumer spending. due to our anniversary sale in july and the holidays in the fourth quarter, our sales are typically higher in the second and fourth quarters than in the first and third quarters of the fiscal year. any factor that negatively impacts these selling seasons could have an adverse and disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire year. to provide shareholders a better understanding of management's expectations surrounding results, we provide public outlook on our expected operating and financial results for future periods comprised of forward-looking statements subject to certain risks and uncertainties. a downturn in economic conditions and other external market factors could have a significant adverse effect on our business and stock price . during economic downturns, including any potential impacts from covid-19, fewer customers may shop for the high-quality items in our stores and on our websites, as these products may be seen as discretionary, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases. this reduced demand may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and an overly promotional environment or increased marketing and promotional spending. additionally, factors such as results differing from guidance, changes in sales and operating income in the peak seasons, changes in our market valuations, performance results for the general retail industry, announcements by us or our industry peers or changes in analysts' recommendations may cause volatility in the price of our common stock and our shareholder returns. our stores located in shopping centers may be adversely affected by any declines in consumer traffic of shopping centers. the majority of our stores are located within shopping centers and benefit from the abilities that we and other anchor tenants have to generate consumer traffic. a substantial decline in shopping center traffic, the development of new shopping centers, the lack of availability of favorable locations within existing or new shopping centers, the success of individual shopping centers and the success of other anchor tenants may negatively impact our ability to maintain or grow our sales in existing stores, as well as our ability to open new stores, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 14 table of contents our business depends on third parties for the production, supply or delivery of goods, and a disruption could result in lost sales or increased costs. timely receipts of quality merchandise from third parties is critical to our business. our process to identify qualified vendors and access quality products in an efficient manner on acceptable terms and cost can be complex. violations of law with respect to quality and safety by our importers, manufacturers or distributors could result in delays in shipments and receipt of goods or damage our reputation, resulting in lost sales. these vendors may experience supply chain or port disruptions or other difficulties due to economic, political, environmental or epidemic conditions. the countries in which merchandise is manufactured could become subject to new trade restrictions, including increased customs restrictions, tariffs or quotas. additionally, changes in tax and trade policies that impact the retail industry, such as increased taxation on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. the results from our credit card operations could be adversely affected by changes in market conditions or laws. revenues earned under our program agreement with td are indirectly subject to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, demand for credit, consumer debt levels, payment patterns, delinquency rates, employment trends, laws and other factors. changes in these economic and market conditions could impair our revenues and profitability. our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics, epidemics and other natural or man-made economic, political or environmental disruptions. disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales, staffing shortages in our stores, supply chain network facilities or corporate offices, interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores, disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers, increased costs and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. we have a significant amount of our total sales, stores and square footage in the west coast of the united states, particularly in california, where we have experienced earthquakes, wildfires and power outages and shortages that increase our exposure to any market-disrupting conditions in this region. our business may be materially and adversely affected by the spread of the novel coronavirus covid-19. a novel strain of coronavirus, covid-19, that was first identified in china in december 2019, has surfaced in several regions across the world and resulted in travel restrictions and business slowdowns or shutdowns in affected areas. many of our vendors either produce their products or source component parts of their products from affected areas. as a result, the business disruptions caused by the spread of covid-19 may impact our ability to timely acquire the products we sell to our customers and our business may be adversely affected. in addition, public concern regarding the risk of contracting covid-19 may itself materially and adversely affect our business, as customers may be unwilling to visit many of the high-traffic locations in which we operate our stores for fear of being exposed to the virus. finally, covid-19 has been found in the seattle metropolitan area where we maintain our corporate headquarters and have a significant number of employees. accordingly, we have implemented a number of protective measures throughout our company, including increasing the frequency and extent of cleaning and disinfecting in our stores and other locations, restricting travel, limiting large gatherings, and encouraging use of telecommuting among our corporate staff, all in an effort to help limit the spread of the virus. effective march 17, 2020, we announced the temporary closure of our stores in the u.s. and canada, including our fls, nordstrom rack stores, trunk club clubhouses and jeffrey boutiques in response to the increased impact from covid-19. we have also temporarily closed one of our distribution centers to comply with a shelter-in-place order. while this is expected to be temporary, we will determine the actual duration of the closure based on available information at that time. we continue to monitor the rapidly evolving situation and guidance from federal, state and local public health authorities and may take additional actions based on their recommendations. the further spread of covid-19, and the requirement to take action to limit the spread of the illness, will impact our ability to carry out our business as usual and may materially adversely impact global economic conditions, our business, results of operations and financial condition, including on our potential to conduct financings on terms acceptable to us, if at all. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 15 table of contents risks due to legal and regulatory factors we are subject to certain laws, litigation, regulatory matters and ethical standards, and compliance or our failure to comply with or adequately address developments as they arise could adversely affect our reputation and operations. our policies, procedures and practices and the technology we implement are designed to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, tariffs, rules and regulations, including those imposed by federal, state and local jurisdictions, the sec, consumer protection and other regulatory agencies, the marketplace, and foreign countries, as well as responsible business, social and environmental practices, all of which may change from time to time. compliance with laws and regulations and/or significant legislative changes may cause our business to be adversely impacted, or even limit or restrict the activities of our business. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or implement responsible business, social, environmental and supply chain practices, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, regulatory investigations, legal and settlement costs, charges and payments, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, losing our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. new and emerging privacy and data protection laws may increase compliance expenses and limit business opportunities and strategic initiatives, including customer engagement. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal, state and foreign tax laws, which may affect our tax assets or liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting through documenting, testing, monitoring and enhancement of internal control over financial reporting. if we fail to implement or maintain adequate internal controls, we may not produce reliable financial reports or fail to prevent or detect financial fraud, which may adversely affect our financial position, investor confidence or our stock price. changes to accounting rules and regulations could affect our financial results or financial condition. accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide variety of accounting matters that are relevant to our business, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, merchandise inventories, leasing, impairment of long-lived assets and tax matters are highly complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules and regulations, changes in our interpretation of the rules or regulations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could adversely affect our financial performance or financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 34quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, the company manages exposure through its regular operating and financing activities. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company manages interest rate exposure through its mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, the company believes that the risk of material loss is low, and that the carrying amount approximates fair value. in addition, the company has outstanding at january 31, 2002 a variable rate construction loan obligation and $300 million of 8.95% fixed-rate debt converted to variable rate through the use of an interest rate swap. the company is currently refinancing the construction loan obligation and expects the agreement to close in april 2002 with a fixed interest rate. the interest rate swap reduces interest payments on the company highest fixed-rate debt by taking advantage of the current low interest rates. a shift in future interest rates could adversely affect the amount of interest paid through this swap agreement. 10 of 22 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) the majority of the company revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in united states dollars. however, the company periodically enters into foreign currency purchase orders for apparel and shoes denominated in euros. the company uses forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. the amounts of these contracts are immaterial. the use of derivatives is limited to only those financial instruments that have been authorized by the company chief financial officer and approved by the finance committee. in addition, the functional currency of fa onnable, s.a. of nice, france is the euro. assets and liabilities of fa onnable are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the period. income and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing on the respective dates of the transactions. the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates are included in other comprehensive earnings. the table below presents information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, which consist of debt obligations and interest rate swaps for the year ended january 31, 2002. for debt obligations, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates, excluding construction loan obligations. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts. fair value total at of liabilities january 31, january 31, dollars in thousands 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 thereafter 2002 2002 long-term debt fixed $ 78,227 $ 1,854 $ 1,812 $ 400,794 $ 300,608 $ 556,797 $ 1,340,092 $ 1,289,000 average interest rate 7.2 % 6.7 % 6.8 % 8.4 % 4.8 % 6.4 % 6.7 % interest rate swap fixed to variable $ 300,000 $ 300,000 $ 5,000 average pay rate 6.9 % 6.9 % average receive rate 9.0 % 9.0 % certain other information required under this item is included in the following sections of the company 2001 annual report to shareholders, which sections are incorporated by reference herein from exhibit 13.1 of this report: note 1 in notes to consolidated financial statements note 7 in notes to consolidated financial statements note 11 in notes to consolidated financial statements note 12 in notes to consolidated financial statements note 22 in notes to consolidated financial statements 11 of 22 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. interest rate exposure is managed through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss is low, and that the carrying amount approximated fair value. in addition, we have outstanding at january 31, 2003 a $250 million 5.625% fixed-rate debt converted to variable rate through the use of an interest rate swap. subsequent to january 31, 2003, we sold the interest rate swap and received cash of $2.3 million, which will be recognized as interest income evenly over the remaining life of the related debt. in the third quarter of 2002, we sold the interest rate swap that converted our $300 million, 8.95% fixed-rate debt to variable rate. we received cash of $4.9 million, which will be recognized as interest income evenly over the remaining life of the related debt. the table below presents information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, which consist of debt obligations and interest rate swaps for the year ended january 31, 2003. for debt obligations, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. page 12 of 34 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) fair value total at of liabilities dollars in january 31, january 31, thousands 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 thereafter 2003 2003 long-term debt fixed $ 5,545 $ 5,032 $ 403,554 $ 303,958 $ 4,045 $ 625,237 $ 1,347,371 $ 1,443,000 avg. int. rate 6.1 % 6.6 % 8.4 % 4.9 % 8.4 % 6.6 % 6.7 % interest rate swap fixed to variable $ 250,000 $ 250,000 $ 3,000 avg. pay rate 3.3 % 3.3 % avg. receive rate 5.6 % 5.6 % foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in united states dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders for apparel and shoes denominated in euros. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. there were no forward contracts outstanding as of january 31, 2003. the use of derivatives is limited to only those financial instruments that have been authorized by our chief financial officer and treasurer. in addition, the functional currency of faconnable, s.a.s. of nice, france is the euro. assets and liabilities of faconnable are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the period. income and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at an average exchange rate during the period. foreign currency gains and losses from the translation of faconnable balance sheet and income statement are included in other comprehensive earnings. foreign currency gains or losses from certain intercompany loans are recorded in service charge income and other, net. we considered the potential impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates and we believe that such a change would not have a material impact on our cash flows of financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange risk. the model measured the change in cash flows arising from the 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates, and covered long-term debt denominated in euros. certain other information required under this item is included in the following sections of our 2002 annual report to shareholders, which sections are incorporated by reference herein from exhibit 13.1 of this report: note 1: summary of significant accounting policies in notes to consolidated financial statements note 7: investment in notes to consolidated financial statements note 14: notes payable in notes to consolidated financial statements note 15: long-term debt in notes to consolidated financial statements note 16: leases in notes to consolidated financial statements note 22: vulnerability due to certain concentrations in notes to consolidated financial statements page 13 of 34 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. interest rate exposure is managed through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss is low, and that the carrying amount approximated fair value. during 2003, we have effectively converted our $250 million 5.63% fixed rate debt to a variable rate through the use of an interest rate swap. under the agreement, we received a fixed rate of 5.63% and paid a variable rate based on libor plus a margin of 2.3% set at six-month intervals (3.945% at january 31, 2004). the swap will expire in 2009. page 10 of 32 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) in 2002 and 2003, we received $4.9 million and $2.3 million for the sale of two interest rate swaps. the first swap converted our $300 million, 8.95% fixed-rate debt to variable rate, while the second swap converted our $250 million, 5.63% fixed-rate debt to variable rate. the cash proceeds from each of the swaps will be recognized as interest income evenly over the remaining life of the related debt. the table below presents information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, which consist of debt obligations and interest rate swaps for the year ended january 31, 2004. for debt obligations, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. fair value total at of liabilities dollars in january 31, january 31, thousands 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter 2004 2004 long-term debt fixed $ 6,833 $ 299,245 $ 304,668 $ 4,678 $ 254,720 $ 372,190 $ 1,242,334 $ 1,335,801 avg. int. rate 6.2 % 8.2 % 4.9 % 9.7 % 5.7 % 7.2 % 6.6 % interest rate swap fixed to variable $ 250,000 $ 250,000 $ (8,091 ) avg. pay rate 3.945 % 3.945 % avg. receive rate 5.63 % 5.63 % foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders for apparel and shoes denominated in euros. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at january 31, 2004 was not material. the use of derivatives is limited to only those financial instruments that have been authorized by our chief financial officer and treasurer. in addition, the functional currency of fa onnable, s.a.s. of nice, france is the euro. assets and liabilities of fa onnable are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the period. income and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at an average exchange rate during the period. foreign currency gains and losses from the translation of fa onnable balance sheet and income statement are included in other comprehensive earnings. foreign currency gains or losses from certain intercompany loans are recorded in service charge income and other, net. we considered the potential impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates and we believe that such a change would not have a material impact on our cash flows of financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange risk. the model measured the change in cash flows arising from the 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates, and covered long-term debt denominated in euros. page 11 of 32 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) certain other information required under this item is included in the following sections of our 2003 amended financial report, which sections are incorporated by reference herein from exhibit 13.1 of this report: note 1: summary of significant accounting policies in notes to consolidated financial statements note 12: notes payable in notes to consolidated financial statements note 13: long-term debt in notes to consolidated financial statements note 14: leases in notes to consolidated financial statements note 22: vulnerability due to certain concentrations in notes to consolidated financial statementsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. interest rate exposure is managed through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss is low, and that the carrying amount approximated fair value. the table below presents information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, which consist of debt obligations and interest rate swaps for the year ended january 29, 2005. for debt obligations, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. fair value total at of liabilities dollars in january 29, january 29, thousands 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter 2005 2005 long-term debt fixed $ 101,097 $ 304,492 $ 4,638 $ 254,778 $ 5,031 $ 367,892 $ 1,037,928 $ 1,105,000 avg. int. rate 6.8 % 4.9 % 9.6 % 5.7 % 8.7 % 7.1 % 6.1 % interest rate swap fixed to variable $ 250,000 $ 250,000 $ (7,821 ) avg. pay rate 5.20 % 5.20 % avg. receive rate 5.63 % 5.63 % page 12 of 26 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders for apparel and shoes denominated in euros. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at january 29, 2005 was not material. the use of derivatives is limited to only those financial instruments that have been authorized by our chief financial officer and treasurer. in addition, the functional currency of fa onnable, s.a.s. of nice, france is the euro. assets and liabilities of fa onnable are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the period. income and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at an average exchange rate during the period. foreign currency gains and losses from the translation of fa onnable balance sheet and income statement are included in other comprehensive earnings. foreign currency gains or losses from certain intercompany loans are recorded in service charge income and other, net. we considered the potential impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates and we believe that such a change would not have a material impact on our cash flows of financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange risk. the model measured the change in cash flows arising from the 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates, and covered long-term debt denominated in euros. certain other information required under this item is included in the following sections of our 2004 annual report to shareholders, which sections are incorporated by reference herein from exhibit 13.1 of this report: note 1: nature of operations and summary of significant accounting policies in notes to consolidated financial statements note 11: long-term debt in notes to consolidated financial statements note 12: leases in notes to consolidated financial statementsrisk factors 6 risk factors. (dollars in millions) our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. however, these are not the only risks we face. additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. deterioration of economic conditions the deterioration in economic conditions over the past two years has hurt our business in several ways. rising unemployment, tightening of consumer credit and the decline in the housing market in the united states have all contributed to a reduction in consumer spending. this has had a significant negative impact on our revenues. we sell high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories, which many consumers consider to be discretionary items. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop in our stores and on our web site, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases, all of which may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending in response to lower demand. the deterioration of economic conditions has also adversely affected our credit customers payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. while some macroeconomic indicators suggest that a modest economic recovery has begun, key factors such as employment levels, consumer credit and housing market conditions remain weak. a sluggish economic recovery or a renewed downturn could have a significant adverse effect on our business. ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends we strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains current and compelling to our customers. we make decisions regarding inventory purchases well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. therefore, our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns, and to match our merchandise levels and mix to sales trends and consumer tastes, significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers. consumer credit our credit card operations help drive sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues by extending credit. our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends and other matters. increases in unemployment have corresponded with rising credit card delinquencies and write-offs, which may continue in the future. further, these economic conditions could impair our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. regulatory environment and financial system reforms current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in increased legislative and regulatory actions. the credit card accountability, responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 (the credit card act ) included new rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. these provisions are likely to affect our credit business practices and could have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability. in addition, congress and the obama administration are currently considering various proposals for reform of the financial system. proposed reforms include the elimination of the thrift charter and all retailer-owned bank charters, creation of a new federal agency to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations, and expanded state authority over consumer lending. the final details of financial system reform legislation, if any, are highly uncertain at this time. depending on the nature and extent of any reforms, our credit business could be significantly adversely affected. leadership development and succession planning the training and development of our future leaders is important to our long-term growth. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business. information security and privacy the protection of our customer, employee and company data is important to us. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. in addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. brand and reputation we have a well-recognized brand that many consumers believe offers a high level of customer service and quality merchandise. any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, reduce employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, any of which would harm our business. 6 table of contents store growth plans our five-year strategic growth plan includes opening several new full-line and rack stores, with 30 announced store openings. the majority of these openings will occur by 2012. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and other regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations. we also depend on the work of our developer partners to sustain our store growth plans. developer delays of shopping center construction, expansion or renovation projects, or developer financial difficulties, could cause the delay or cancellation of our expected store openings or remodels, or could adversely affect maintenance and leasing at some shopping centers in which we have stores. new store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. our future sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could affect our return on investment. performance in our new stores could also be negatively impacted if we are unable to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service our customers have come to expect when shopping in our stores. our inability to execute our store growth strategy in a way that generates appropriate returns on investment could affect our future growth and profitability. information technology strategy we make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. in 2010, we expect to spend approximately $160 on information technology operations and systems development, which is key to our growth. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs may result in the loss of our competitive position. in addition, if we do not maintain our current systems we may see interruptions to our business and increase our costs in order to bring our systems up to date. multi-channel strategy execution over the past several years, we have made changes in our business to improve the shopping experience across all channels. these changes included aligning our online merchandise offering with our full-line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores and web site, combining the full-line stores and direct merchandise organizations; providing a more focused catalog offering; and creating a shared inventory platform between direct and our full-line stores. we plan to make additional changes in our multi-channel merchandise planning process over the next few years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology, or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute this strategy could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current projections. impact of competitive market forces the retail industry environment continues to change for many of our vendors and customers. in the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve consumers needs. if we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining sales and declining profitability due to higher markdowns. our credit segment faces competition from large banks, and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. many of our competitors offer general-purpose credit card products with a variety of loyalty programs. in addition, there is intense competition for cardholders with prime credit ratings who make up a significant portion of our credit portfolio. if we do not effectively respond to the competitive banking and credit card environment, we could lose market share to our competitors, which would have an adverse effect on our credit business. capital management and liquidity our access to debt and equity capital, and our ability to invest capital to maximize the total returns to our shareholders, is critical to our long-term success. we utilize capital to finance our operations and working capital, make capital expenditures, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. as a result of the financial crisis, global credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all. our ability to obtain capital and the cost of the capital depend on financial market conditions and independent rating agencies short and long-term debt ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. if our access to capital is restricted or if our cost of capital increases, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations and cash flows could be adversely affected and our long-term cost of capital could increase. supply chain disruption the effective and efficient operation of our supply chain, including merchandise sourcing and procurement, receiving and distribution, is critical to the success of our business. our supply chain operations may be adversely impacted by difficulties with our suppliers, such as production capacity constraints, errors in meeting merchandise specifications, including specifications dictated by consumer product safety laws, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, or increases in manufacturing costs. additionally, unforeseen disruptions in our supply chain due to severe weather, natural or man-made disasters, labor disputes, shipping problems, or information systems malfunction, may adversely affect our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores or our customers and could increase our costs. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents relationships with vendors our relationships with our merchandise vendors have been a significant contributor to our past success and our position as a retailer of high-quality fashion merchandise. some of our vendors have experienced serious cash flow problems due to the credit market crisis and economic deterioration. to address these problems, our vendors could attempt to increase their prices, alter payment terms or seek other relief, all of which could increase our costs. in some cases, they may be forced to reduce their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are unable to procure the desired merchandise on acceptable terms. we also have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our key vendors, many of whom limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise. competition to obtain and sell this merchandise is intense. nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and many of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. if one or more of our top vendors were to increase sales of merchandise through their own stores or to the stores of our competitors, or to limit or reduce our access to their merchandise, our business could be adversely affected. geographic location of stores a significant amount of our total sales is derived from stores located on the west and east coasts, particularly california, which increases our exposure to local economic conditions, severe weather, natural disasters and other natural or man-made disruptions within these regions. deterioration in economic conditions and consumer confidence within these regions has negatively impacted our business, including a reduction in overall sales, reduced gross margins and increased expenses, including bad debt expense. any continued economic deterioration, severe weather patterns, natural disasters or other disruptions in these regions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business. in addition, many states in these regions are facing significant budget shortfalls, and may seek to address those shortfalls through unfavorable changes in tax laws and interpretation of existing laws which could adversely affect our results of operations. employment laws and regulations our policies and procedures are designed to comply with employment laws and regulations set forth by the federal government and in each of the states and municipalities where we do business. these include laws and regulations related to wages and hours, meals and rest periods, and commissions. these laws and regulations are complex and continuously evolving, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of california. significant legislative changes that impact our relationship with our workforce could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. possible legislative changes include changes to an employer obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed and health care mandates. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, changes to our employment practices, and loss of customers and employees, which could result in a loss of sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale, and harm to our business and results of operations. regulatory compliance our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, nyse, the banking industry and foreign countries. additional legal and regulatory requirements, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance. failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. impact of public health concerns our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by a regional or widespread pandemic, which could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales; staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers, or corporate offices; supply chain disruptions; or disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers. any of these effects could have a significant adverse impact on our sales, costs, reputation and long-term growth plans. foreign currency we purchase a portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers whose cost to us is affected by fluctuations of their local currency against the u.s. dollar or who price their merchandise in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold, and if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, our gross margins, and ultimately our earnings, would decrease. anti-takeover provisions we are incorporated in the state of washington and subject to washington state law. some provisions of washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. for example, one provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (an acquiring person ) for a period of five years following the time that the shareholder became an acquiring person. 8 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (dollars in millions) interest rate risk our primary exposure to market risk is through changes in interest rates. as of january 30, 2010, we have gross trade receivables of $2,162, which generate finance charge income at a combination of fixed and variable rates, and long-term debt of $2,613, including $1,150 that bears interest at libor-based rates. changing interest rates can therefore affect our credit card revenues and interest expense. the annualized effect of a one-percentage-point change in interest rates would not materially affect our net earnings, cash flows, or the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. we manage our net interest rate exposure through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings and associated current and long-term assets. from time to time, we may also enter into interest rate swap transactions for purposes of hedging the exposure of changes in fair value of our long-term debt from interest rate risk. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. the table below presents information about our long-term debt obligations and interest rate swaps that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of january 30, 2010. for debt obligations, including our capital leases, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. total at fair value at january 30, january 30, dollars in millions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter 2010 2010 long-term debt fixed $356 $6 $6 $7 $406 $1,333 $2,114 $2,324 avg. int. rate 5.0% 8.8% 8.5% 8.4% 6.8% 6.7% 6.5% variable - - $500 - - - $500 $486 avg. int. rate 1 - - 0.3% - - - 0.3% interest rate swaps fixed to variable - - - - - $650 $650 $(1 ) avg. pay rate 1 - - - - - 3.1% 3.1% avg. receive rate - - - - - 6.3% 6.3% 1 interest rates as of january 30, 2010. foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders denominated in euros for apparel, accessories and shoes. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at january 30, 2010 is not material. 32 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. interest rate exposure is managed through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss is low, and that the carrying amount approximated fair value. during 2003, we converted our $250 million 5.63% fixed rate debt to variable rate through the use of an interest rate swap. under the agreement, we received a fixed rate of 5.63% and paid a variable rate based on libor plus a margin of 2.3% set at six-month intervals (3.945% at january 31, 2004). the swap will expire in 2009. page 10 of 30 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) in 2002 and 2003, we received $4.9 million and $2.3 million for the sale of two interest rate swaps. the first swap converted our $300 million, 8.95% fixed-rate debt to variable rate, while the second swap converted our $250 million, 5.63% fixed-rate debt to variable rate. the cash proceeds from each of the swaps will be recognized as interest income evenly over the remaining life of the related debt. the table below presents information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, which consist of debt obligations and interest rate swaps for the year ended january 31, 2004. for debt obligations, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. fair value total at of liabilities dollars in january 31, january 31, thousands 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter 2004 2004 long-term debt fixed $ 6,833 $ 299,245 $ 304,668 $ 4,678 $ 254,720 $ 372,190 $ 1,242,334 $ 1,335,801 avg. int. rate 6.2 % 8.2 % 4.9 % 9.7 % 5.7 % 7.2 % 6.6 % interest rate swap fixed to variable $ 250,000 $ 250,000 $ (8,091 ) avg. pay rate 3.945 % 3.945 % avg. receive rate 5.63 % 5.63 % foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders for apparel and shoes denominated in euros. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at january 31, 2004 was not material. the use of derivatives is limited to only those financial instruments that have been authorized by our chief financial officer and treasurer. in addition, the functional currency of fa onnable, s.a.s. of nice, france is the euro. assets and liabilities of fa onnable are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the period. income and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at an average exchange rate during the period. foreign currency gains and losses from the translation of fa onnable balance sheet and income statement are included in other comprehensive earnings. foreign currency gains or losses from certain intercompany loans are recorded in service charge income and other, net. we considered the potential impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates and we believe that such a change would not have a material impact on our cash flows of financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange risk. the model measured the change in cash flows arising from the 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates, and covered long-term debt denominated in euros. page 11 of 30 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (continued) certain other information required under this item is included in the following sections of our 2003 annual report to shareholders, which sections are incorporated by reference herein from exhibit 13.1 of this report: note 1: summary of significant accounting policies in notes to consolidated financial statements note 12: notes payable in notes to consolidated financial statements note 13: long-term debt in notes to consolidated financial statements note 14: leases in notes to consolidated financial statements note 22: vulnerability due to certain concentrations in notes to consolidated financial statementsrisk factors. 5 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. however, these risks may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 5 table of contents ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on our business. consumer spending at our stores may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including consumer confidence, weather and other hazards of nature that affects consumer traffic, and general economic conditions. inventory management we strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains fresh and compelling to our customers. if we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases, we may have excess inventory, which would result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. impact of competitive market forces the recent retail industry consolidation changes the environment for many of our vendors and customers. in the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve the market needs. if we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining same-store sales, and declining profitability due to higher markdowns. store growth strategy as of march 2006, our plans for the next three years include opening 13 new stores and relocating or remodeling 18 existing stores. in the past, our expected opening dates have sometimes been delayed because of development plan delays. our future growth could be negatively impacted by delays to our store opening, relocating or remodeling plans. in addition, our future net sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could reduce our operating performance. performance in our new stores could also be impacted based on our ability to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service customers have come to expect when shopping at our stores. information security and privacy the protection of our customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. in addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. leadership development and succession planning the training and development of our future leaders is critical to our long-term growth. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. in addition, if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without established succession plans, our business may suffer. board succession a number of our long-standing directors who were instrumental in leading our company have retired or will soon retire from our board. these board members with extensive experience will no longer be actively involved in our business and development of our long-term strategy. we are welcoming a number of new members to our board, and we expect to benefit from their vast business experience. multi-channel strategy execution in 2005, we started to make changes in our direct business that better align our online shopping environment and catalog with the customer experience in our full-line stores. these changes include: aligning our direct merchandise offering with our full-line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores, catalogs and web site; integrating our full-line stores and direct merchandise organization; recommending that our full-line store salespeople utilize our direct inventory to fulfill customer requests when merchandise is not available at the store; reducing the number and frequency of our direct catalog mailings; and transitioning our direct inventory system onto our full-line store platform, all while dealing with changes in the internet market in general. if we made decisions that prove to not be embraced by our customers, our sales could decline. in addition, the cost of integrating these businesses may be greater than expected, which would impact our future operating performance. brand and reputation we have a well-recognized brand that is synonymous with the highest level of customer service. any significant damage to our brand or reputation may negatively impact same-store sales, lower employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. capital efficiency and proper allocation our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall returns. this includes spending on inventory, capital projects and expenses, managing debt levels, managing accounts receivable through our credit business, and using our assets efficiently to return value to our shareholders. to a large degree, capital efficiency reflects how well we manage the other key risks to our company. the actions taken to address other specific risks may affect how well we manage the more general risk of capital efficiency. our recent operating results have raised expectations about our performance. if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, we may fail to continue to produce similar financial results and we may experience a reduction in shareholder value. 6 table of contents human resource regulations our policies and procedures are designed to comply with human resource laws such as wage and hour, meal and rest period, and commissions. federal and state wage and hour laws are complex, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of california. failure to comply with these laws could result in damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, and dissatisfied employees. employment and discrimination laws state and federal employment and discrimination laws and the related case law continue to evolve, making ongoing compliance in this area a challenge. failure to comply with these laws may result in damage to our reputation, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, and loss of customers and employees, which would result in a loss of net sales and increased employment costs, low employee morale and attendant harm to our business and results of operations. technology strategy we make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. we spend on average approximately $150 million each year on information technology operations and system development, and this spending is key to our growth strategy. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investment, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below the requirements of the business opportunity may result in the loss of our competitive position. in addition, an inadequate investment in maintaining our current systems may result in a loss of system functionality and increased future costs to bring our systems up to date. we may implement too much technology, or change too fast, which could result in failure to adopt the new technology if the business is not ready or capable of accepting it. excessive technological change affects the effectiveness of adoption, and could adversely affect the realization of benefits from the technology. however, not implementing enough technology could compromise our competitive position. regulatory compliance our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, nyse, the banking industry, and foreign countries. with recent high profile business failures on accounting-related issues, additional legal and regulatory requirements such as the sarbanes-oxley act have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment. in addition, foreign laws may conflict with domestic laws. failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance, and restatements of financial statements. anti-takeover provisions we are incorporated in the state of washington and subject to washington state law. some provisions of washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change in control events affecting us. for example, one statutory provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an acquiring person ) for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder became an acquiring person. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. interest rate exposure is managed through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss was low, and that the carrying amount approximated fair value. the table below presents information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, which consist of debt obligations and interest rate swaps for the year ended january 28, 2006. for debt obligations, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. total at fair value at january 28, january 28, dollars in thousands 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter 2006 2006 long-term debt fixed $306,618 $6,709 $256,858 $6,958 $5,419 $362,882 $945,444 $963,092 avg. int. rate 4.9% 8.1% 5.7% 7.8% 8.9% 7.2% 6.0% interest rate swap fixed to variable $250,000 $250,000 $(11,050) avg. pay rate 7.09% 7.09% avg. receive rate 5.63% 5.63% foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders denominated in euros for apparel, accessories and shoes. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at january 28, 2006 was not material. in addition, the functional currency of fa onnable, s.a.s. of nice, france is the euro. assets and liabilities of fa onnable are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the period. income and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at an average exchange rate during the period. foreign currency gains and losses from the translation of fa onnable balance sheet and income statement are included in other comprehensive earnings. foreign currency gains or losses from certain intercompany loans are recorded in other income including finance charges, net. we considered the potential impact of a hypothetical 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates and we believe that such a change would not have a material impact on our cash flows of financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange risk. the model measured the change in cash flows arising from the 10% adverse change in foreign exchange rates, and covered long-term debt denominated in euros. 24 table of contentsrisk factors. 5 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. however, these risks may not be the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 5 table of contents ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on our business. consumer spending at our stores may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including consumer confidence, weather and other hazards of nature that affects consumer traffic, and general economic conditions. inventory management we strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains fresh and compelling to our customers. if we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases, we may have excess inventory, which would result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. impact of competitive market forces the retail industry environment continues to change for many of our vendors and customers. in the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve the market needs. if we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining same-store sales, and declining profitability due to higher markdowns. store growth strategy as of february 2007, our plans for the next five years include opening 26 new or relocated stores and remodeling 69 existing stores. our future net sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could reduce our operating performance. performance in our new stores could also be impacted based on our ability to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service customers have come to expect when shopping at our stores. in the past, our expected opening dates have sometimes been delayed because of developer plan delays. our future growth could be negatively impacted by delays to our store opening, relocating or remodeling plans. information security and privacy the protection of our customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. in addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, and lawsuits. leadership development and succession planning the training and development of our future leaders is critical to our long-term growth. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. in addition, if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without established succession plans, our business may suffer. multi-channel strategy execution in 2005, we started to make changes in our direct business that better align our online shopping environment and catalog with the customer experience in our full-line stores. these changes include: aligning our direct merchandise offering with our full-line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores, catalogs and web site, linking the full-line stores and direct merchandise organization; reducing the number and frequency of our direct catalog mailings; and transitioning our direct inventory system onto our full-line store platform, all while dealing with changes in the internet market in general. based on our online sales trends and customer feedback in 2006, we believe that our strategy shift will improve our future operating performance. we also found that the technology changes will be more challenging than we initially anticipated. executing this strategy may cost more and take longer than expected, which could impact our future operating performance. brand and reputation we have a well-recognized brand that is synonymous with the highest level of customer service and quality merchandise. any significant damage to our brand or reputation may negatively impact same-store sales, lower employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. capital efficiency and proper allocation our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall long-term returns. this includes spending on inventory, capital projects and expenses, managing debt levels, managing accounts receivable through our credit business, and returning value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. to a large degree, capital efficiency reflects how well we manage the other key risks to our company. the actions taken to address other specific risks may affect how well we manage the more general risk of capital efficiency. our recent operating results have raised expectations about our performance. if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, we may fail to continue to produce similar financial results and we may experience a reduction in shareholder value. human resource regulations our policies and procedures are designed to comply with human resource laws such as wage and hour, meal and rest period, and commissions. federal and state wage and hour laws are complex, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of california. failure to comply with these laws could result in damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, and dissatisfied employees. 6 table of contents employment and discrimination laws state and federal employment and discrimination laws and the related case law continue to evolve, making ongoing compliance in this area a challenge. failure to comply with these laws may result in damage to our reputation, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, and loss of customers and employees, which would result in a loss of net sales and increased employment costs, low employee morale and attendant harm to our business and results of operations. technology strategy we make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. we expect to spend approximately $170 million each year on information technology operations and system development, which is key to our growth strategy. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investment, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below the requirements of the business opportunity may result in the loss of our competitive position. in addition, an inadequate investment in maintaining our current systems may result in a loss of system functionality and increased future costs to bring our systems up to date. we may implement too much technology, or change too fast, which could result in failure to adopt the new technology if the business is not ready or capable of accepting it. excessive technological change affects the effectiveness of adoption, and could adversely affect the realization of benefits from the technology. however, not implementing enough technology could compromise our competitive position. regulatory compliance our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, nyse, the banking industry, and foreign countries. additional legal and regulatory requirements such as the sarbanes-oxley act have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment. in addition, foreign laws may conflict with domestic laws. failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance, and restatements of financial statements. anti-takeover provisions we are incorporated in the state of washington and subject to washington state law. some provisions of washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change in control events affecting us. for example, one statutory provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an acquiring person ) for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder became an acquiring person. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. interest rate risk we are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. interest rate exposure is managed through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss was low, and that the carrying amount approximated fair value. the table below presents information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, which consist of debt obligations and interest rate swaps for the year ended february 3, 2007. for debt obligations, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. total at fair value at february 3, february 3, dollars in thousands 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter 2007 2007 long-term debt fixed $6,800 $257,030 $7,043 $5,427 $5,764 $357,244 $639,308 $667,191 avg. int. rate 8.0% 5.7% 7.7% 8.9% 8.7% 7.1% 6.6% interest rate swap fixed to variable $250,000 $250,000 $(8,858 ) avg. pay rate 7.70% 7.70% avg. receive rate 5.63% 5.63% foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders denominated in euros for apparel, accessories and shoes. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we do not believe the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at february 3, 2007 to be material. in addition, the functional currency of fa onnable, s.a.s. of nice, france is the euro. assets and liabilities of fa onnable are translated into u.s. dollars at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the period. income and expenses are translated into u.s. dollars at an average exchange rate during the period. foreign currency gains and losses from the translation of fa onnable balance sheet and income statement are included in other comprehensive earnings. foreign currency gains or losses from certain intercompany loans are recorded in other income including finance charges, net. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 25 table of contentsrisk factors. 6 risk factors. (dollars in millions) our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. however, these risks are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner and to match our merchandise mix to prevailing consumer tastes. any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could force us to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. in addition, consumer spending at our stores may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including consumer confidence, weather and other hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic, and general economic conditions. inventory management we strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains fresh and compelling to our customers. if we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which would result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. this could have an adverse effect on margins and operating income. impact of competitive market forces the retail industry environment continues to change for many of our vendors and customers. in the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve the market needs. if we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining same-store sales, and declining profitability due to higher markdowns. store growth plan as of february 2008, our five-year strategic growth plan includes opening 31 new or relocated full-line stores and remodeling 29 existing full-line stores. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and other regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations. new store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. our future sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could adversely impact our return on investment. performance in our new stores could also be negatively impacted by our inability to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service our customers have come to expect when shopping at our stores. in the past, our expected operating dates have sometimes been delayed because of developer plan delays. our inability to execute our store growth strategy in a manner that generates appropriate returns on investment could have an adverse impact on our future growth and profitability. banking operations our credit card operations, conducted through our federal thrift subsidiary, facilitate sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues by extending credit. our finance charge revenue is subject to changes in interest rates which fluctuate based on market conditions. the market conditions influencing interest rates are based on economic factors that are beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. our ability to extend credit to our customers and to collect payments from them depends on many factors including compliance with applicable laws and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. changes in credit card use, payment patterns and default rates may result from a variety of economic, legal, social and other factors that we cannot control or predict with certainty. changes that adversely impact our ability to extend credit and collect payments could negatively affect our results. information security and privacy the protection of our customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. in addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. leadership development and succession planning the training and development of our future leaders is critical to our long-term growth. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. in addition, if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without established succession plans, our business may suffer. multi-channel strategy execution in 2005, we started to make changes in our direct business that better align our online shopping environment and catalog with the customer experience in our full-line stores. these changes included: aligning our direct merchandise offering with our full-line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores, catalogs and web site, linking the full-line stores and direct merchandise organizations; reducing the number and frequency of our direct catalog mailings; and transitioning our direct inventory system onto our full-line store platform. our inability to successfully execute this strategy could impact our future operating performance. 6 table of contents brand and reputation we have a well-recognized brand that is synonymous with the highest level of customer service and quality merchandise. any significant damage to our brand or reputation may negatively impact same-store sales, lower employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, resulting in a reduction in shareholder value. capital efficiency and proper allocation our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall long-term returns. this includes spending on inventory, capital projects and expenses, managing debt levels, managing accounts receivable through our credit business, and returning value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. to a large degree, capital efficiency reflects how well we manage the other key risks to our company. the actions taken to address other specific risks may affect how well we manage the more general risk of capital efficiency. if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, we may fail to produce financial results that our shareholders have come to expect and we may experience a reduction in shareholder value. human resource regulations our policies and procedures are designed to comply with human resource laws such as wage and hour, meal and rest period, and commissions. federal and state wage and hour laws are complex, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of california. failure to comply with these laws could result in damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits and dissatisfied employees. employment and discrimination laws state and federal employment and discrimination laws and the related case law continue to evolve, making ongoing compliance in this area a challenge. failure to comply with these laws may result in damage to our reputation, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, and loss of customers and employees, which would result in a loss of sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and attendant harm to our business and results of operations. technology we make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. we expect our combined capitalized and expense spend to be approximately $180 each year on information technology operations and system development, which is key to our growth. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investment, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below the requirements of the business opportunity may result in the loss of our competitive position. in addition, an inadequate investment in maintaining our current systems may result in a loss of system functionality and increased future costs to bring our systems up to date. we may implement too much technology, or change too fast, which could result in failure to adopt the new technology if the business is not ready or capable of accepting it. excessive technological change affects the effectiveness of adoption, and could adversely affect the realization of benefits from the technology. however, not implementing enough technology could compromise our competitive position. distribution and fulfillment centers we depend on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of our six distribution centers and our direct fulfillment center. although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and our customers. although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, management cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, if any of the distribution centers are shut down for any reason. foreign currency we purchase a portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers whose cost to us is affected by the fluctuation of their local currency against the dollar or who price their merchandise in currencies other than the dollar. we source goods from numerous countries and thus are affected by changes in numerous currencies and generally, by fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to such currencies. accordingly, changes in the value of the dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold and if we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers, our gross margins, and ultimately our earnings, would decrease. foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. seasonality our business is seasonal in nature. due to our anniversary sale in july and the holidays in december, sales are higher for our retail stores in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters. accordingly, our results may vary considerably from quarter to quarter. in addition, we have significant additional cash requirements in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those months, including expenses for additional inventory, advertising and employees. regulatory compliance our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, nyse, the banking industry and foreign countries. additional legal and regulatory requirements, such as those arising under the sarbanes-oxley act and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance. failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents anti-takeover provisions we are incorporated in the state of washington and subject to washington state law. some provisions of washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. for example, one statutory provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an acquiring person ) for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder became an acquiring person. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (dollars in millions) interest rate risk our primary exposure to market risk is through changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. we have both credit card receivables that generate interest income and debt obligations which we pay fixed and variable interest expense. we manage our net interest rate exposure through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. a portion of our credit card receivables maintains a fixed interest rate. additionally, a portion of this portfolio is used as convenience by our customers and revolves monthly. the annualized effect of a one-percentage-point change in interest rates would not materially affect net earnings. additionally, short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss is low, and that the carrying amount approximates fair value. the table below presents information about our debt obligations and interest rate swaps that are sensitive to changes in interest rates at february 2, 2008. for debt obligations, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. total at fair value at february 2, february 2, dollars in millions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter 2008 2008 long-term debt fixed $260 $23 $356 $6 $6 $1,345 $1,996 $2,038 avg. int. rate 5.7% 6.5% 5.0% 8.8% 8.5% 6.7% 6.3% variable $500 $500 $475 avg. int. rate 3.2% 3.2% interest rate swap fixed to variable $250 $250 $1 avg. pay rate 5.32% 5.32% avg. receive rate 5.63% 5.63% foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders denominated in euros for apparel, accessories and shoes. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we do not believe the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at february 2, 2008 to be material. 32 table of contentsrisk factors. 6 risk factors. (dollars in millions) our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. however, these risks are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. deterioriation of economic conditions the recent deterioration in economic conditions has hurt our business in several ways. instability in the stock market, tightening of consumer credit and the recent decline in the housing market in the united states has caused a reduction in consumer spending. this has had a significant negative impact on our revenues. we sell high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories, which many consumers consider to be discretionary items. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop in our stores and on our web site, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases, all of which may lead to higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending in response to lower demand. the deterioration of economic conditions has also adversely affected our credit customers payment patterns and default rates, increasing our bad debt expense. we do not expect that economic conditions are likely to improve significantly in the near future, and a continuation or worsening of the credit crisis, or even the fear of such a development, could continue to harm our business. ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences quickly, and to match our merchandise mix to consumer tastes, impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences quickly enough, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could harm our business. in addition, many factors outside of our control, including consumer confidence, weather and other hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic, and general economic conditions could decrease consumer spending at our stores. brand and reputation we have a well-recognized brand that many customers believe offers a high level of customer service and quality merchandise. any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, reduce employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, any of which would harm our business. inventory management we strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains fresh and compelling to our customers. we make decisions regarding inventory purchases well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. if we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases, we may have excess inventory, which would result in additional markdowns and reduce our operating performance. this could have an adverse effect on margins and net earnings. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may not have an adequate supply of products to meet our customers demand. this may cause us to lose sales or harm our customer relationships. capital management and liquidity our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall long-term returns. this includes spending on inventory, capital projects and expenses, managing debt levels, managing accounts receivable through our credit business and returning value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. to a large degree, capital management and liquidity reflects how well we manage our other key risks. the actions we take to address other specific risks could affect how well we manage the more general risk of capital management and liquidity. if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our business may suffer. impact of competitive market forces the retail industry environment continues to change for many of our vendors and customers. in the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve consumers needs. if we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining sales and declining profitability due to higher markdowns. store growth plan our five-year strategic growth plan includes opening several new full-line and rack stores, with 28 announced store openings through 2013. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and other regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations. new store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. our future sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could affect our return on investment. performance in our new stores could also be negatively impacted if we are unable to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service our customers have come to expect when shopping in our stores. our expected opening dates have sometimes been delayed because of developer plan delays. if these developer plan delays continue or worsen, they could have a negative impact on profitability. our inability to execute our store growth strategy in a way that generates appropriate returns on investment could affect our future growth and profitability. 6 table of contents consumer credit our credit card operations drive sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues by extending credit. our credit card revenue is subject to changes in interest rates which fluctuate based on market conditions. the market conditions influencing interest rates are based on economic factors that are beyond our control and include, but are not limited to, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. our ability to extend credit to our customers and to collect payments from them depends on many factors including compliance with applicable laws and regulations, any of which may change from time to time. changes in credit card use, payment patterns and default rates have resulted from a variety of economic, legal, social and other factors that we cannot control or predict with certainty. changes that impact our ability to extend credit and collect payments have negatively affected our results and may continue in the future. availability and cost of credit u.s. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all. as a result of this disruption, we have experienced an increase in the cost of borrowings necessary to operate our business. if these conditions continue or become worse, our cost of borrowing could continue to increase. it may also become more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies short and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. a decrease in these ratings would likely also increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. a significant increase in the costs we incur in order to finance our operations may have a material adverse impact on our business results and financial condition. supply chain disruption we do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third-parties to manufacture our merchandise. we may experience operational difficulties with our vendors, such as the availability of production capacity, errors in meeting merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. a vendor failure to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required quality standards could cause supply shortages and could result in lost sales. we depend on the orderly operation of the receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of our six distribution centers and our direct fulfillment center. we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient. however, unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fires, hurricanes or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores or our customers and could increase our costs. although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, if any of the distribution centers or our fulfillment center is shut down for any reason, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient or we may not receive insurance proceeds in a timely manner. relationship with vendors and developers our relationships with our vendors and developers have been a significant contributor to our past success and our position as a retailer of high-quality and fashion merchandise. some of our vendors and developers have experienced serious cash flow problems due to the credit market crisis. in addition, the recent economic deterioration has reduced the availability of funds for vendors and developers. we depend on the work of our developer partners to be able to sustain our store growth plan. in the case of developer delays of shopping center expansion, renovation or construction projects or developer bankruptcies, our expected store openings or remodels could be further delayed or cancelled, and maintenance and leasing at some shopping centers in which we have stores could be adversely affected. many of our key vendors limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise and competition to obtain and sell those goods is intense. nearly all the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and many of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. if one or more of our top vendors were to increase sales of merchandise through their own stores or to the stores of our competitors, our business could be adversely affected. we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our principal merchandising sources. to counteract cash flow problems, our vendors could attempt to increase their prices, pass through increased costs, alter payment terms or seek other relief. accordingly there can be no assurance that our vendors will continue to meet our quality, style or volume requirements. our vendors may be forced to reduce their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which in some cases would make it difficult for us to serve the market needs and could have a material adverse effect on our business. geographic location of stores a significant amount of our total sales are derived from stores located on the west and east coasts, particularly california, which increases our dependence on local economic conditions within these states. the success of our credit card business is also highly dependent on our customers ability to pay and our ability to minimize risk when extending credit to cardholders. deterioration in economic conditions and consumer confidence within these states has negatively impacted our business, including a reduction in overall sales, reduced gross margins and increased expenses including bad debt expense. these trends could become worse if these factors continue. leadership development and succession planning the training and development of our future leaders is important to our long-term growth. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business. our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified key personnel. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents employment laws and regulations our policies and procedures are designed to comply with human resource laws, employment laws and discrimination laws set forth by the federal government and in each of the states and municipalities where we do business. human resource laws include regulations related to wage and hour, meal and rest period, and commissions. wage and hour laws are complex, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of california. employment and discrimination laws continue to evolve, making ongoing compliance in this area a challenge. failure to comply with these laws may result in damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, and loss of customers and employees, which would result in a loss of sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale, and harm to our business and results of operations. information security and privacy the protection of our customer, employee and company data is important to us. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. in addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. information technology strategy we make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. for 2009, we expect to spend approximately $155 on information technology operations and system development, which is key to our growth. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs may result in the loss of our competitive position. in addition, if we do not maintain our current systems we may see interruptions to our business and increase our costs in order to bring our systems up to date. we may implement too much technology, or change too fast, which could result in failure to adopt the new technology if we are not ready or capable of accepting it. excessive technological change impacts the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. however, not implementing new technologies can also compromise our competitive position. if we are unable to strike the appropriate balance in the pace of our adoption of new technology, our business may suffer. regulatory compliance our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, nyse, the banking industry and foreign countries. additional legal and regulatory requirements and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance. failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements. multi-channel strategy execution over the past several years, we have made changes in our direct business that better align our online shopping environment with the customer experience in our full-line stores. these changes included: aligning our direct merchandise offering with our full-line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores and web site, linking the full-line stores and direct merchandise organizations; reducing the number and frequency of our direct catalog mailings; and transitioning our direct inventory system onto our full-line store platform. our inability to continue to successfully execute this strategy could impact our future operating performance. seasonality our business is seasonal in nature. due to our anniversary sale in july and the holidays in december, sales are higher for our retail stores and direct segment in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters. accordingly, our results may vary considerably from quarter to quarter. in addition, we have significant additional cash requirements in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those months, including expenses for additional inventory, advertising and employees. foreign currency we purchase a portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers whose cost to us is affected by fluctuations of their local currency against the u.s. dollar or who price their merchandise in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we purchase goods from many countries and are affected by changes in numerous currencies as well as fluctuations in the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold, and if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, our gross margins, and ultimately our earnings, would decrease. foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. anti-takeover provisions we are incorporated in the state of washington and subject to washington state law. some provisions of washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. for example, one provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (an acquiring person ) for a period of five years following the time that the shareholder became an acquiring person. 8 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. (dollars in millions) interest rate risk our primary exposure to market risk is through changes in interest rates. in seeking to minimize risk, we manage exposure through our regular operating and financing activities. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. we have both credit card receivables that generate finance charge income and debt obligations for which we pay fixed and variable interest expense. we manage our net interest rate exposure through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings. a portion of our credit card receivables maintains a fixed interest rate. additionally, a portion of this portfolio is used as convenience by our customers who pay in full monthly. the annualized effect of a one-percentage-point change in interest rates would not materially affect net earnings. additionally, short-term borrowing and investing activities generally bear interest at variable rates, but because they have maturities of three months or less, we believe that the risk of material loss is low, and that the carrying amount approximates fair value. the table below presents information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to changes in interest rates at january 31, 2009. for debt obligations, including our capital leases, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. total at fair value at january 31, january 31, dollars in millions 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter 2009 2009 long-term debt fixed $24 $356 $6 $6 $7 $1,339 $1,738 $1,400 avg. int. rate 6.3% 5.0% 8.8% 8.5% 8.4% 6.7% 6.4% variable - - - $500 - - $500 $350 avg. int. rate - - - 0.5% - - 0.5% foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenue, expense and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into foreign currency purchase orders denominated in euros for apparel, accessories and shoes. we use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. we do not believe the fair value of our outstanding forward contracts at january 31, 2009 to be material. 30 table of contentsrisk factors. 6 risk factors. dollars in millions our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. however, these are not the only risks we face. economic conditions the deterioration in economic conditions that began in 2007 affected our business in several ways. elevated unemployment, the tightening of consumer credit and the decline in the housing and stock markets in the united states all contributed to a reduction in consumer spending, which in turn had a negative impact on our revenues. we sell high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories, which many consumers consider to be discretionary items. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop in our stores and on our website, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases, all of which may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending in response to lower demand. the deterioration of economic conditions also adversely affected our credit customers payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. our business has improved and some macroeconomic indicators suggest that a modest economic recovery has begun, however key factors such as employment levels, consumer credit and housing market conditions remain weak. a sluggish economic recovery or a renewed downturn could have a significant adverse effect on our business. in addition, many states where we conduct business are facing significant budget shortfalls as a result of the economic downturn, and may seek to address those shortfalls through unfavorable changes in tax laws and interpretation of existing laws. an increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. impact of competitive market forces the fashion specialty retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with other national, regional and local retail establishments that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, boutiques and internet businesses. if we are unable to remain competitive in the key areas of customer service, fashion newness, quality of products, the shopping experience across all channels, depth of selection, store environment and location, we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer. our credit segment faces competition from large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. many of our competitors offer general-purpose credit card products with a variety of loyalty programs. in addition, there is intense competition for cardholders with prime credit ratings who make up a significant portion of our credit portfolio. if we do not effectively respond to the competitive banking and credit card environment, we could lose market share to our competitors, which would have an adverse effect on our credit business. availability and cost of merchandise our relationships with our merchandise vendors have been a significant contributor to our success and our position as a retailer of high-quality fashion merchandise. we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our key vendors, many of whom limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise. competition to obtain and sell this merchandise is intense. nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and many of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. if one or more of our top vendors were to limit or reduce our access to their merchandise, our business could be adversely affected. further, if our merchandise costs increase due to increased raw material or labor costs or other factors, our ability to respond or the effect of our response could adversely affect our sales or gross margins. ability to respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends we strive to ensure the merchandise we offer and our shopping experience remain current and compelling to our customers. we make decisions regarding inventory purchases well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. therefore, our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns, and to match our merchandise levels, mix and shopping experience to sales trends and consumer tastes, significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers. growth strategy our strategic growth plan includes opening new nordstrom full-line and nordstrom rack stores, with 6 announced nordstrom full-line and 18 announced nordstrom rack store openings, the majority of which will occur by 2012. the availability and cost of suitable locations for our stores depends on a number of factors, including competition from other retailers and businesses, local land use and other regulations, new shopping center construction and developers financial condition. new store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. our sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could adversely affect our return on investment. we are also pursuing other growth opportunities, which may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to improve the customer shopping experience in our stores and online. if these investments do not perform as expected, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. 6 table of contents leadership development and succession planning the training and development of our future leaders is important to our long-term success. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop future leaders, our business may suffer. we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business. merchandise planning we are making investments to improve our multi-channel merchandise planning, procurement and allocation capabilities. these efforts involve changes in personnel, processes and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current projections. financial system reforms the recent financial crisis resulted in increased legislative and regulatory changes affecting the financial industry. the credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 (the credit card act ) included new rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. these rules required us to make changes to our credit card business practices and systems, and we expect more regulations and interpretations of the new rules to emerge. depending on the nature and extent of the full impact from these rules, and any interpretations or additional rules, the revenues and profitability of our credit segment could be adversely affected. in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was enacted in july 2010. it significantly restructures regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, creates a new federal agency to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations and expands state authority over consumer lending. numerous regulations will be issued in the near future to implement the requirements of this act. the final regulatory details remain uncertain at this time. depending on the nature and extent of these regulations, and the enforcement approach of regulators under the new law, there could be an adverse impact to our credit segment. information security and privacy the protection of our customer, employee and company data is important to us. our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. a significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation, our brand and our relationship with our customers and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in disruption of our operations. consumer credit our credit card operations help drive sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues from extending credit. our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends, laws and regulations and other factors. elevated levels of unemployment have historically corresponded with increased credit card delinquencies and write-offs, which may continue in the future. further, these economic conditions could impair our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses. this could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. capital management and liquidity our access to debt and equity capital, and our ability to invest capital to maximize the total returns to our shareholders, is critical to our long-term success. we utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. our ability to obtain capital and the cost of the capital depend on company performance, financial market conditions and independent rating agencies short- and long-term debt ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. if our access to capital is restricted or if our cost of capital increases, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. brand and reputation we have a well-recognized brand that consumers may associate with a high level of customer service and quality merchandise. any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, reduce employee morale and productivity and diminish customer trust, any of which would harm our business. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents information technology strategy we make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. in 2011, we expect to spend approximately $185 on information technology operations and systems development, which is key to our growth. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs may result in the loss of our competitive position. in addition, if we do not maintain our current systems we may see interruptions to our business and increase our costs in order to bring our systems up to date. health care reform in march 2010, the patient protection and affordable care act and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010 (the health care reform acts ) were signed into law. these laws include numerous health care related provisions which will take effect over a four year period beginning in 2010. increased costs required to meet the requirements of the health care reform acts and any interpretations or additional rules resulting from the acts could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if it is necessary to make changes to the health benefits provided to our employees as a result of the health care reform acts, we may not be able to offer competitive health care benefits to attract and retain employees. laws, regulations and litigation our policies, procedures and practices are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, nyse, the banking industry and foreign countries, which may change from time to time. these laws and regulations are complex, continuously evolving and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of california, which has increased the cost of compliance. significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. possible legislative changes include changes to an employer obligation to recognize collective bargaining units. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. business continuity our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. we derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to conditions in these regions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales; staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers, or corporate offices; interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores; disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers; increased costs; and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. anti-takeover provisions we are incorporated in the state of washington and subject to washington state law. some provisions of washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. for example, one provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (an acquiring person ) for a period of five years following the time that the shareholder became an acquiring person. 8 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. dollars in millions interest rate risk our primary exposure to market risk is through changes in interest rates. as of january 29, 2011, we have gross credit card receivables of $2,103, which generate finance charge income at a combination of fixed and variable rates, and long-term debt of $2,781, including $1,150 that bears interest at libor-based rates. changing interest rates can therefore affect our credit card revenues and interest expense. the annualized effect of a one-percentage-point change in interest rates would not materially affect our net earnings, cash flows or the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. we manage our net interest rate exposure through our mix of fixed and variable rate borrowings and associated current and long-term assets. from time to time, we may also enter into interest rate swap transactions for purposes of hedging the exposure of changes in fair value of our long-term debt from interest rate risk. we do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and are not party to any leveraged financial instruments. the table below presents information about our long-term debt obligations and interest rate swaps that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of january 29, 2011. for debt obligations, including our capital leases, the table presents principal amounts, at book value, by maturity date, and related weighted average interest rates. for interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by expected (contractual) maturity dates. notional amounts are the predetermined dollar principal on which the exchanged interest payments are based. dollars in millions 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total at january 29, 2011 fair value at january 29, 2011 long-term debt fixed $6 $6 $7 $406 $8 $1,823 $2,256 $2,513 avg. int. rate 8.8% 8.5% 8.4% 6.8% 8.5% 6.2% 6.3% variable $500 $500 $497 avg. int. rate 1 0.3% 0.3% interest rate swaps fixed to variable $650 $650 $25 2 avg. pay rate 1 3.1% 3.1% avg. receive rate 6.3% 6.3% 1 interest rates as of january 29, 2011. 2 our interest rate swaps were in an asset position as of january 29, 2011. foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into merchandise purchase orders denominated in euros. from time to time we may use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. as of january 29, 2011, we had no outstanding forward contracts. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 35 table of contentsrisk factors. 6 risk factors. our business faces many risks. we believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. however, these are not the only risks we face. economic conditions we sell high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories, which many consumers consider to be discretionary items. during economic downturns, fewer customers may shop in our stores and on our website, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases, all of which may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending in response to lower demand. deterioration of economic conditions and consumer confidence may also adversely affect our credit customers payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. some macroeconomic indicators suggest that a modest economic recovery has begun, however key factors such as employment levels, consumer credit and housing market conditions remain weak. a sluggish economic recovery or a renewed downturn could have a significant adverse effect on our business. impact of competitive market forces the fashion specialty retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with other national, regional, local and online retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and internet businesses. online retail shopping is rapidly evolving and we expect competition in the e-commerce market to intensify in the future as the internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping. if we are unable to remain competitive in the key areas of customer service, the shopping experience across all channels, fashion newness, quality of products, depth of selection, store environment and location, we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer. we believe owning our credit business allows us to fully integrate our loyalty program and drive more sales. many of our competitors also offer general-purpose credit card products with a variety of loyalty programs. our credit segment faces competition from other retailers, large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. in addition, there is intense competition for cardholders with prime credit ratings who make up a significant portion of our credit portfolio. if we do not effectively anticipate or respond to the competitive banking and credit card environment, we could lose market share to our competitors, which could have an adverse effect on our credit business. 6 table of contents ability to anticipate and respond to consumer preferences and fashion trends we strive to ensure the merchandise we offer and our shopping experience, both in store and online, remain current and compelling to our customers. we make decisions regarding inventory purchases well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. therefore, our ability to predict or respond to constantly changing fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns, and to match our merchandise levels, mix and shopping experience to sales trends and consumer tastes, significantly impacts our sales and operating results. if we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. if we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could harm our business. conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers. growth strategy our strategic growth plan focuses on both our stores and on e-commerce. there are risks associated with opening new stores. the availability and cost of suitable locations for our stores depends on a number of factors, including competition from other retailers and businesses, local land use and other regulations, new shopping center construction and developers financial condition. new store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. our sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could adversely affect our return on investment. as part of our growth strategy, we also intend to open stores in new and international markets. expansion will require management attention and resources and may ultimately be unsuccessful, which could harm our future business development. in addition, competition from strong local competitors, compliance with foreign and local laws and regulatory requirements and potentially unfavorable tax consequences may cause our business to be adversely impacted. we are also pursuing a heightened focus on technology to enhance our website and mobile capabilities, broaden the selection of our online merchandise offering and improve the speed and quality of our delivery of merchandise to customers. in addition, other growth opportunities may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to improve the customer shopping experience in our stores and online. if these technologies and investments do not perform as expected, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected. leadership development and succession planning the training and development of our future leaders is important to our long-term success. if we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop future leaders, our business may suffer. we rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. if unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business. merchandise planning we are making investments to improve our multi-channel merchandise planning, procurement and allocation capabilities. these efforts involve changes in personnel, processes and technology over a period of several years. if we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy could be adversely affected. as a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current projections. information security and privacy the protection of our customer, employee and company data is vitally important to us. as we operate in multiple retail channels and maintain our own credit operations, we are subject to privacy, security and cybersecurity risks and incidents. our business involves the storage and transmission of customers personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information, in addition to employee information and company financial and strategic data. in addition, we use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our customers. some of our critical systems also depend upon third party providers. as techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, sabotage systems or otherwise attack our services change frequently and often are unforeseen, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures and they may remain undetected for some period. concurrently, measures that we may take to prevent risks of fraud and breaches of privacy, security and cybersecurity have the potential to harm relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use or restricting the ability to meet customers expectations in terms of shopping experience. any measures we implement to prevent a security or cybersecurity risk may not be totally effective. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. security breaches and cyber incidents and their remediation, whether at our company or our third party providers, could expose us to a risk of loss or misappropriation of this information, litigation, potential liability, reputation damage and loss of customers trust and business. we have expended, and will continue to expend, significant resources to protect our customers and ourselves against these breaches and to ensure an effective response to an internal or external security or cybersecurity breach, either actual or perceived. nordstrom, inc. and subsidiaries 7 table of contents capital management and liquidity our access to debt and equity capital, and our ability to invest capital to maximize the total returns to our shareholders, is critical to our long-term success. we utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. our ability to obtain capital and the cost of the capital depend on company performance, financial market conditions and independent rating agencies short- and long-term debt ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. if our access to capital is restricted or if our cost of capital increases, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected. brand and reputation we have a well-recognized brand that consumers may associate with a high level of customer service and quality merchandise, and is one of the reasons employees choose nordstrom as a place of employment. any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified employees, any of which would harm our business. information technology strategy we make investments in information technology and systems developments to advance our competitive position, and we believe they are key to our growth. we must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs may result in the loss of our competitive position. in addition, if we do not maintain our current systems, we may see interruptions to our business and increase our costs in order to bring our systems up to date. laws, regulations and litigation our policies, procedures and practices are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the sec, the marketplace, the banking industry and foreign countries, which may change from time to time. these obligations are complex, continuously evolving and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of california, which has increased the cost of compliance. significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters and health care reform, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. possible legislative changes include changes to an employer obligation to recognize collective bargaining units. recent health care reform could materially increase our employee-related costs and if it is necessary to make changes to the health benefits provided to our employees as a result of health care reform, we may not be able to offer competitive health care benefits to attract and retain employees. in addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. in addition, political and economic factors could lead to unfavorable changes in federal and state tax laws which may increase our tax liabilities. an increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are also regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition. financial system reforms the recent financial crisis resulted in increased legislative and regulatory changes affecting the financial industry. the credit card accountability responsibility and disclosure act of 2009 included new rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. these rules required us to make changes to our credit card business practices and systems, and we expect more regulations and interpretations of the new rules to emerge. depending on the nature and extent of the full impact from these rules, and any interpretations or additional rules, the revenues and profitability of our credit segment could be adversely affected. in addition, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act was enacted in july 2010. it significantly restructures regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, creates a new federal agency to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations and expands state authority over consumer lending. numerous regulations will be issued in the near future to implement the requirements of this act. the final regulatory details remain uncertain at this time. depending on the nature and extent of these regulations, and the enforcement approach of regulators under the new law, there could be an adverse impact to our credit segment. availability and cost of merchandise our relationships with our merchandise vendors have been a significant contributor to our success and our position as a retailer of high-quality fashion merchandise. we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our key vendors, many of whom limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise. competition to obtain and sell this merchandise is intense. nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and many of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores and websites. if one or more of our top vendors were to limit or reduce our access to their merchandise, our business could be adversely affected. further, if our merchandise costs increase due to increased raw material or labor costs or other factors, our ability to respond or the effect of our response could adversely affect our sales or gross margins. 8 table of contents consumer credit our credit card operations help drive sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues from extending credit. our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends, laws and regulations and other factors. elevated levels of unemployment have historically corresponded with increased credit card delinquencies and write-offs, which may continue in the future. further, these economic conditions could impair our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses. this could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. business continuity our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. we derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts of the united states, particularly in california, which increases our exposure to conditions in these regions. these disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales; staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers or corporate offices; interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores; disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers; increased costs; and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans. anti-takeover provisions we are incorporated in the state of washington and subject to washington state law. some provisions of washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. for example, one provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (an acquiring person ) for a period of five years following the time that the shareholder became an acquiring person. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. dollars in millions interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in short-term interest rates. as of january 28, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,877, which generate interest income at variable rates, and gross credit card receivables of $2,074, which generate finance charge income at a combination of fixed and variable rates. additionally, we have long-term debt of $3,647, including $500 that bears interest at floating libor-based rates and is scheduled to mature in april 2012. interest rate fluctuations can affect our interest income, credit card revenues and interest expense. see note 3: accounts receivable and note 8: debt and credit facilities in item 8 for additional information. we use sensitivity analyses to measure and assess our interest rate risk exposure. for purposes of presenting the potential earnings effect of a reasonably possible hypothetical change in interest rates from our reporting date, we utilized two sensitivity scenarios: (i) linear growth of approximately 140 basis points over the year, and (ii) linear decline of approximately 20 basis points over the year, due to the fact that current interest rates are at or near historically low levels. other key parameters and assumptions in our sensitivity analyses include the average cash and cash equivalents balance, average credit card receivables balance and no new floating rate debt issuance. the first hypothetical scenario would result in an approximate $10 increase in future earnings, while the second hypothetical scenario would not have a material effect on future earnings. we occasionally enter into interest rate swaps typically to convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt. we did not have interest rate swaps on our debt as of january 28, 2012, although we continue to amortize, as a reduction of interest expense, the remaining adjustment to long-term debt originating from gains realized on previously designated fair value hedges. for our long-term fixed-rate debt, our exposure to interest rate changes is limited to the change in fair value of the debt. as of january 28, 2012, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt was $3,652. foreign currency exchange risk the majority of our revenues, expenses and capital expenditures are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we periodically enter into merchandise purchase orders denominated primarily in euros. from time to time we may use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. as of january 28, 2012, we had no outstanding forward contracts. 36 table of contents