risk factors 9 risk factors risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters and item 3. legal proceedings. environmental matters we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations by us or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $74 million to $162 million as of september 27, 2013 . as of september 27, 2013 , we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $105 million , of which $82 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and accounts payable and $23 million is included in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet. the majority of these liabilities relate to the ongoing remediation efforts at a facility in our global products segment located in marinette, wisconsin. in view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for a more detailed description of these liabilities, see item 3. legal proceedings and note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. employees as of september 27, 2013 , we employed approximately 70,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 20,000 were employed in the united states and approximately 50,000 were outside the united states. approximately 7,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. available information tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. investors may read and copy any document that tyco files, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, dc 20549. investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec, from which investors can electronically access tyco's sec filings. our internet website is www.tyco.com . we make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, reports filed pursuant to section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the sec. as a swiss company, we prepare swiss statutory financial statements, including swiss consolidated financial statements, on an annual basis. a copy of the swiss statutory financial statements is distributed along with our annual report to shareholders, and all of the aforementioned reports will be made available to our shareholders upon their request. in addition, we have posted the charters for our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee, and nominating and governance committee, as well as our board governance principles and guide to ethical conduct, on our website under the headings "about board of directors" and 8 table of contents "about our people and values." the annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. we will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as technological obsolescence, labor relations, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. risks relating to our businesses general economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain markets that we serve. for example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial and residential construction, industrial capital expenditures for facility expansions and maintenance and the amount of discretionary business and consumer spending, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. even if demand for our products is not negatively affected, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. much of the demand for installation of security products and fire detection and suppression solutions is driven by commercial and residential construction and industrial facility expansion and maintenance projects. commercial and residential construction projects are heavily dependent on general economic conditions, localized demand for commercial and residential real estate and availability of credit. in recent years, many commercial and residential real estate markets have experienced significant fluctuations in supply and demand, and this volatility may continue indefinitely. in addition, most commercial and residential real estate developers rely heavily on project financing from banks and other institutional lenders in order to initiate and complete projects. declines in real estate values in many parts of the world have led to significant reductions in the availability of project financing, even in markets where demand may otherwise be sufficient to support new construction. these factors have in turn hampered demand for new fire detection and suppression and security installations. levels of industrial capital expenditures for facility expansions and maintenance turn on general economic conditions, economic conditions within specific industries we serve, expectations of future market behavior and available financing. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the businesses of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical and petrochemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. during such economic downturns, customers in these industries historically have tended to delay major capital projects, including greenfield construction, expensive maintenance projects and upgrades. additionally, demand for our products and services may be affected by volatility in energy and commodity prices and fluctuating demand forecasts, as our customers may be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. although our industrial customers tend to be less dependent on project financing than real estate developers, disruptions in financial markets and banking systems, could make credit and capital markets difficult for our customers to access, and could raise the cost of new debt for our customers to prohibitive levels. any difficulty in accessing these markets and the increased associated costs can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during periods of favorable end-market conditions. many of our customers outside of the industrial and commercial sectors, including governmental and institutional customers, have experienced budgetary constraints as sources of revenue, including tax receipts, general obligation and construction bonds, endowments and donations, have been negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions. these budgetary constraints have in the past and may in the future reduce demand for our products and services among governmental and institutional customers. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in the industries we serve. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 table of contents we face competition in each of our businesses, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products and services. if we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected. we operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service providers, both domestically and on a global basis. our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from alternative service providers around the world. currently, key components of our competitive position are our ability to bring to market industry-leading products and services, to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. these factors require continuous management focus on maintaining our competitive position through technological innovation, cost reduction, productivity improvement and a regular appraisal of our asset portfolio. if we are unable to maintain our position as a market leader, or to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by evolving industry standards. although many of our largest competitors are also global industrial companies, we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products and services at lower cost than ours, particularly in emerging markets, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. we have found that in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire, manufacture and bring competitive products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. adapting our businesses to serve more local markets will require us to invest considerable resources in building our distribution channels and engineering and manufacturing capabilities in those markets to ensure that we can address customer demand. even when we invest in growing our business in local markets, we may not be successful for any number of reasons, including competitive pressure from regional and local businesses that may have superior local capabilities or products that are produced more locally at lower cost. our ability to develop or acquire new products and services can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis. moreover, as we introduce new products, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in the design of a product or in its application to a specified use, which could result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. even after introduction, new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. as a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance and our brand images could suffer. in addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. as a result, the failure to effectively adapt our products and services to the needs of local markets, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance, the potential for product defects or the obsolescence of our products and services could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. if a customer or third party believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our employees or a security or fire system failure, he or she may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment could be substantial. in particular, because our products and services are intended to protect lives and real and personal property, we may have greater exposure to litigation risks than businesses that provide other products and services. we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our installation, service and monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances, and we typically maintain product liability insurance to mitigate the risk that our products and services fail to operate as expected. however, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, it is possible that contract limitations may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable, that our insurance coverage is not adequate, or that insurance carriers deny coverage of our claims. as a result, 10 table of contents such employee acts or omissions or system failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business. our business operates and serves consumers worldwide. there are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: economic volatility and the impact of economic conditions in various regions; the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets, especially our intellectual property rights, through non-u.s. legal systems; possibility of unfavorable circumstances from host country laws, regulations or licensing requirements; fluctuations in revenues, operating margins and other financial measures due to currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency and earnings repatriation; trade protection measures, import or export restrictions, licensing requirements and local fire and security codes and standards; increased costs and risks of developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of foreign operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; issues related to occupational safety and adherence to local labor laws and regulations; potentially adverse tax developments; longer payment cycles; changes in the general political, social and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; the presence of corruption in certain countries; and fluctuations in available municipal funding in those instances where a project is government financed. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we intend to enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other non-metal commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we may enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 table of contents our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing business. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we will continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and services offerings. these acquisitions are likely to include businesses in emerging markets, which are often riskier than acquisitions in developed markets. we cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. moreover, we may be unable to obtain strategic or operational benefits that are expected from our acquisitions. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. a significant percentage of our future growth is anticipated to come from emerging markets, and if we are unable to expand our operations in emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected. one aspect of our growth strategy is to seek significant growth in emerging markets, including china, india, latin america and the middle east, through both organic investments and through acquisitions. emerging markets generally involve greater financial and operational risks than more mature markets, where legal systems are more developed and familiar to us. in some cases, emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, are more susceptible to corruption, and are locations where it may be more difficult to impose corporate standards and procedures. negative or uncertain political climates in developing and emerging markets could also adversely affect us. we cannot guarantee that our growth strategy will be successful. if we are unable to manage the risks inherent in our growth strategy in emerging markets, including civil unrest, international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches and failure to maintain compliance with multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. failure to maintain and upgrade the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable and other information; non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such information; or a violation of the company's privacy and security policies with respect to such information, could adversely affect us. we are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and, in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers, stockholders and employees. the legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain such information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. a significant actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, stockholder, employee or our data, whether by third parties or as a result of employee malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against us. in addition, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our operations. increasingly, our security products and services are accessed through the internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services via the internet may affect us and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. 12 table of contents failure to maintain, upgrade and consolidate our information and technology networks could adversely affect us. we are continuously upgrading and consolidating our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality and acquiring new systems with new functionality. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. our culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular we strive to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified engineers and managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. many of our manufacturing processes, and many of the integrated solutions we offer, are highly technical in nature. our ability to expand or maintain our business depends on our ability to hire, train and retain engineers and other technical professionals with the skills necessary to understand and adapt to the continuously developing needs of our customers. this includes developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where the depth of skilled employees is often limited and competition for resources is intense. our geographic expansion strategy in emerging markets depends on our ability to attract, retain and integrate qualified managers and engineers. if we fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience excessive turnover, we may experience declining sales, manufacturing delays or other inefficiencies, increased recruiting, training and relocation costs and other difficulties, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we may be required to recognize substantial impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets periodically to determine whether they are impaired. disruptions to our business, unfavorable end-market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in material charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. we maintain significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, and we believe these balances are recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected with the annual impairment analysis. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our residential and commercial security businesses may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. if our residential security customers (located outside of north america) or our commercial security customers are dissatisfied with our products or services and switch to competitive products or services, or disconnect for other reasons, our recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services we provide. we amortize the costs of acquired monitoring contracts and related customer relationships based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if customer disconnect rates were to rise 13 table of contents significantly, we may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continually evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. in addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and any divestiture we undertake could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. we employ approximately 70,000 people worldwide. approximately 10% of these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works council. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and works councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works council, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. additionally, a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could materially and adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. stoppages by employees of our customers could also result in reduced demand for our products. a material disruption of our operations, particularly at our monitoring and/or manufacturing facilities, could adversely affect our business. if our operations, particularly at our monitoring facilities and/or manufacturing facilities, were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, sabotage, adverse weather conditions, public health crises, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to effectively respond to alarm signals, fill customer orders and otherwise meet obligations to or demand from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures or purchase alternative material at higher costs to fill customer orders, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. we maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. however, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we may be unable to execute our strategies following the spin-offs of adt and tyco flow control. in connection with the spin-offs of our former north american residential and small business security business and flow control businesses in september 2012, we anticipated certain financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to tyco, and in particular we commenced certain productivity and other strategic initiatives following the spin-offs intended to reduce complexity, restructure operations and leverage tyco's scale in certain areas such as sourcing. we may not be able to achieve the anticipated results of these actions on the scale that we expected, and the anticipated benefits of the spin-offs, and the productivity and other strategic initiatives may not be fully realized. we and adt have entered into non-compete and non-solicit restrictions that prohibit us from competing with adt in the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada, and prohibit adt from competing with us in the commercial fire and security businesses, in each case until september 29, 2014. the adt separation and distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs includes non-compete provisions pursuant to which (i) we are prohibited from competing with adt in the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada and (ii) adt is prohibited from competing with tyco in the commercial fire and security businesses, subject to certain small business related exceptions, in each case until september 29, 2014. in addition, the 14 table of contents adt separation and distribution agreement contains non-solicitation provisions preventing (i) us from soliciting adt's residential small business customers in the united states and canada and (ii) adt from soliciting our security customers, in each case until september 29, 2014. this effectively prevents us from expanding into adt's business, and adt from expanding into our business, in these jurisdictions until september 29, 2014. when these restrictions expire, adt could seek to compete with us for commercial security customers, especially smaller businesses. if adt were successful in this regard, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results and operations and cash flows. in connection with the 2012 separation, we re-branded our north american commercial security business to tyco integrated security and we no longer own the right to use the adt brand name in the united states and canada. prior to the spin-off of adt in september 2012, we re-branded our north american commercial security business to tyco integrated security. there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve name recognition or status under our new brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed. the failure of these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, resulting in reduced revenues. in addition, as a result of the spin-offs, we own the adt brand name in jurisdictions outside of the united states and canada, and adt owns the brand name in the united states and canada. although we have entered agreements with adt designed to protect the value of the adt brand, we cannot assure you that actions taken by adt will not negatively impact the value of the brand outside of the united states and canada. these factors expose us to the risk that the adt brand name could suffer reputational damage or devaluation for reasons outside of our control, including adt's business conduct in the united states and canada. any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the normal course of our business, we are subject to claims and lawsuits, including from time to time claims for damages related to product liability and warranties, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, and litigation related to employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. furthermore, we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. the defense of these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of our management's attention. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies or suffer from adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us, such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, and our insurance carriers may deny coverage for claims made by us. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our businesses operate in a regulated industry. our operations and employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local licensing laws, fire and security codes and standards and other laws and regulations. in certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. the loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, our systems generally must meet fire and building codes in order to be installed, and it is possible that our current or future products will fail to meet such codes, which could require us to make costly modifications to our products or to forgo marketing in certain jurisdictions. 15 table of contents changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations were to change or if we or our products failed to comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our international operations are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various non u.s. governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"), increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. furthermore, in september 2012 we agreed to the settlement of charges related to alleged fcpa violations with the doj and sec. in connection with the settlement, we entered into a consent agreement with the sec and a non-prosecution agreement with the doj, and a subsidiary of ours (which is no longer part of tyco as a result of the 2012 separation) pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to violate the fcpa. pursuant to the non-prosecution agreement, we have acknowledged that a number of our subsidiaries made payments, both directly and indirectly, to government officials in order to obtain and retain business with private and state-owned entities, and falsely described the payments in the subsidiaries' books, records and accounts. the non-prosecution agreement also acknowledges tyco's timely, voluntary and complete disclosure to the doj, and our cooperation with the doj's investigation-including a global internal investigation concerning bribery and related misconduct-and extensive remediation. under the non-prosecution and other agreements, we have agreed to cooperate with and report periodically to the doj and other governmental authorities concerning our compliance efforts and related matters, and to continue to implement an enhanced compliance program and internal controls designed to prevent and detect fcpa violations. notwithstanding our settlement of the doj and sec investigations, we may be subject to allegations of fcpa violations in the future, and we may be subject to commercial impacts such as lost revenue from customers who decline to do business with us as a result of these compliance matters. if so, or if we are unable to comply with the provisions of the non-prosecution and other agreements, we may be subject to additional investigation or enforcement by the doj or sec. in such a case, we could be subject to material fines, injunctions on future conduct, the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper 16 table of contents activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we and certain of our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. while we have observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims, a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed by the courts. the company's historical strategy has been to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, where appropriate, settling suits before trial. although a large percentage of litigated suits have been dismissed, we cannot predict the extent to which we will be successful in resolving lawsuits in the future, and we continually assess our strategy for resolving asbestos claims. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. due to the number of claims and limited amount of assets at yarway corporation ( yarway ), one of the company's indirect subsidiaries, yarway filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code in the united states bankruptcy court for the district of delaware. as a result of this filing, all asbestos claims against yarway have been stayed pending confirmation of a plan of reorganization by the bankruptcy court. yarway's goal is to negotiate, obtain approval of, and consummate a plan of reorganization that establishes an appropriately funded trust to provide for the fair and equitable payment of legitimate current and future yarway asbestos claims, accompanied by appropriate injunctive relief permanently protecting yarway and certain other protected parties from any further asbestos claims arising from products manufactured, sold, and/or distributed by yarway. however, we cannot assure you that the relief granted by the bankruptcy court will be satisfactory to yarway or its non-debtor affiliates, and a failure to obtain satisfactory relief could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently record an estimated liability related to pending claims and claims estimated to be received over the next fifteen years, including related defense costs, based on a number of key assumptions and estimation methodologies. these assumptions are derived from claims experience over the past three years and reflect our expectations about future claim activities over the next fifteen years. these assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, we may incur additional liabilities in the future. a change in one or more of the inputs or the methodology that we use to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending and future claims. although it is possible that the company will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond the next fifteen years, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. on a quarterly and annual basis, we perform analyses to review and update as appropriate the underlying assumptions. we also record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. there are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, success in litigation in certain cases, the methodology for allocating claims to policies, and the continued solvency of the insurers or other responsible parties. the assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as a result, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables and cash flows expected to reduce our asbestos costs. due to these uncertainties, as well as our inability to reasonably estimate any additional asbestos liability for claims that may be filed beyond the next fifteen years, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the cost, nor potential recoveries, of resolving the pending and all unasserted asbestos claims. additionally, we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond the next fifteen years, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from other environmental agencies that conditions at several sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to 17 table of contents investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations by us or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, oil, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and structure decontamination and demolition, including asbestos abatement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. we depend on third-party licenses for our products and services. we rely on certain software technology that we license from third parties and use in our products and services to perform key functions and provide critical functionality, particularly in our commercial security business. because our products and services incorporate software developed and maintained by third parties we are, to a certain extent, dependent upon such third parties' ability to maintain or enhance their current products and services, to ensure that their products are free of defects or security vulnerabilities, to develop new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. further, these third-party technology licenses may not always be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if our agreements with third-party vendors are not renewed or the third-party software fails to address the needs of our software products and services, we would be required to find alternative software products and services or technologies of equal performance or functionality. we cannot assure that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software if we lose the license to this software, it becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products and services or is otherwise not adequately maintained or updated. furthermore, even if we obtain licenses to alternative software products or services that provide the functionality we need, we may be required to replace hardware installed at our monitoring centers and at our customers' sites, including security system control panels and peripherals, in order to effect our integration of or migration to alternative software products. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. infringement or expiration of our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties, could negatively affect us. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology, trade secrets or know-how. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our trade secrets, know-how, business strategy and other proprietary information, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. finally, for those products in our portfolio that rely on patent protection, once a patent has expired, the product is generally open to competition. products under patent protection usually generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected by patents. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we are, from time to time, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, including practicing entities and non-practicing entities. regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can 18 table of contents be expensive and time-consuming, and the litigation process is subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. intellectual property lawsuits or claims may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. legislative action by the u.s. congress could adversely affect us. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties, or modify statutes or regulations, upon which we rely, which could materially and adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subject to increased taxation. police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies. police departments in a limited number of u.s. cities do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance. we have offered affected customers the option of receiving responses from private guard companies, in most cases through contracts with us, which increases the overall cost to customers. if more police departments, whether inside or outside the u.s., were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies, our ability to attract and retain customers could be negatively impacted and our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. risks related to our liquidity and financial markets disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, by increasing our funding costs or reducing the availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain customary financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. in addition, the indentures governing our bonds contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale-leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. if 19 table of contents such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate purposes, including dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health, and may decrease our profitability. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital stock, the terms of the debt or capital stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in us would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us. risks relating to tax matters examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the irs, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. tyco's and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the 2007 separation. we previously disclosed that in connection with u.s. federal tax audits, the irs has raised a number of issues and proposed tax adjustments for periods beginning with the 1997 tax year. in particular, we have been unable to resolve with the irs matters related to the treatment of certain intercompany debt transactions in existence prior to the 2007 separation. as a result, on june 20, 2013, we received notices of deficiency from the irs asserting that several of our former u.s. subsidiaries owe additional taxes of $883.3 million plus penalties of $154 million based on audits of the 1997 through 2000 tax years of tyco and its subsidiaries as they existed at that time. in addition, we received final partnership administrative adjustments for certain u.s. partnerships owned by former u.s. subsidiaries with respect to which an additional tax deficiency of approximately $30 million is expected to be asserted. these amounts exclude interest and do not reflect the impact on subsequent periods if the irs position described below is ultimately proved correct. in addition, the adjustments proposed by the irs are subject to the sharing provisions of a tax sharing agreement entered in 2007 with covidien and te connectivity under which tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of shared income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns. the irs asserted in the notices of deficiency that substantially all of tyco's intercompany debt originated during the 1997 - 2000 period should not be treated as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and disallowed interest and related deductions recognized on u.s. income tax returns totaling approximately $2.9 billion. we strongly disagree with the irs position and have filed petitions with the u.s. tax court contesting the irs proposed adjustments. we believe that we have meritorious defenses for our tax filings, that the irs positions with regard to these matters is inconsistent with the applicable tax laws and existing treasury regulations, and that the previously reported taxes for the years in question are appropriate. furthermore, we believe that tyco's income tax reserves and the liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet for the tax sharing arrangements are appropriate. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters, and the impact of that resolution, are uncertain and could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in particular, if the irs is successful in asserting its claim, it would have an adverse impact on interest deductions related to the same intercompany debt in subsequent time periods, totaling approximately $6.6 billion, which is expected to be disallowed by the irs. 20 table of contents we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and te connectivity's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. in connection with the 2007 separation, tyco entered into a tax sharing agreement (the "2007 tax sharing agreement") that governs the rights and obligations of each party with respect to certain pre-2007 separation tax liabilities and certain tax liabilities arising in connection with the 2007 separation. as noted above, tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 separation. in the event the 2007 separation, or certain related transactions, is determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the 2007 separation by tyco, covidien, or te connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien, or te connectivity as a result thereof. if none of the companies is responsible for such failure, then tyco, covidien, and te connectivity would be responsible for such taxes in the same manner and in the same proportions as other shared tax liabilities under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. if any party to the 2007 tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the 2007 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and te connectivity's tax liabilities. as noted above, with respect to years prior to and including the 2007 separation, we are litigating certain issues and proposed tax adjustments that the irs has raised that are generally subject to the sharing provisions of the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which may require tyco to make a payment to a taxing authority, covidien or te connectivity. tyco has recorded a liability as of september 27, 2013 which it has assessed and believes is adequate to cover the payments that tyco may be required to make under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in tyco being responsible for a greater amount than it expects under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. we share responsibility for certain of our, pentair's and adt's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. in connection with the distributions, we entered into the 2012 tax sharing agreement with pentair and adt that is separate from the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which governs the rights and obligations of tyco, adt and pentair for certain tax liabilities before the distributions, including tyco's obligations under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. under the 2012 tax sharing agreement tyco, pentair and adt share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to adt's u.s., tyco flow control's and tyco's income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by tyco with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement, excluding approximately $175 million of pre-2012 separation related tax liabilities that were anticipated to be paid prior to the 2012 separation (collectively, "shared tax liabilities"). tyco will be responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. pentair and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. tyco, pentair and adt will share 52.5% 20% and 27.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20%, 27.5%, and 52.5% by pentair, adt and tyco, respectively. as of september 28, 2012, tyco established liabilities representing the fair market value of its obligations under the 2012 tax sharing arrangement which is recorded in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet with an offset to tyco shareholders' equity. in addition, we entered into a non-income tax sharing agreement with adt in connection with the adt distribution. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under these agreements, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that, if any party were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of certain taxes that may arise as a result of the failure of the distributions to be tax free (such taxes, as defined in the 2012 tax sharing agreement, "distribution taxes"), each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, pentair's and adt's tax liabilities. 21 table of contents if the distributions or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or both adt and pentair could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco has received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distributions to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distributions will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and/or 361 of the code, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of adt common stock or of pentair common shares. the private letter ruling also provides that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter ruling, tyco has received an opinion from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distributions for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the private letter ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, pentair and adt regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distributions or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership (which might take into account changes in pentair stock ownership resulting from the merger) or asset ownership after the distributions. an opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinions will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distributions ultimately are determined to be taxable, the distributions could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to you for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and you could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, we would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the pentair common shares and the shares of adt common stock distributed to our shareholders on the distribution date over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we, pentair or adt could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions are taxable. in addition, under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distributions or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distributions by us, pentair or adt, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, pentair or adt as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distributions by us, pentair or adt, then we, pentair and adt will share the liability in the manner and according to the sharing percentages set forth in the 2012 tax sharing agreement. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. if the distributions or the merger are determined to be taxable for swiss withholding tax purposes, we, adt and pentair could incur significant swiss withholding tax liabilities. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to tyco's shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. as of january 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of qualifying contributed surplus accumulated on or after january 1, 1997 are exempt from swiss withholding tax, if certain conditions are met ( kapitaleinlageprinzip ). tyco has obtained a ruling from the swiss federal tax administration confirming that the distributions qualify as payment out of such qualifying contributed surplus and no amount was withheld by tyco when making the distributions. we have obtained tax rulings from the swiss tax administrations confirming that the merger is a transaction that is generally tax-free for swiss federal, cantonal, and communal tax purposes (including with respect to swiss stamp tax and swiss withholding tax). however, these tax rulings rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco. notwithstanding these tax rulings, the swiss federal tax administration could determine on audit that the distributions or the merger should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax or other tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. if the distributions or the merger ultimately are determined to be taxable for withholding tax or other tax purposes, tyco and tyco shareholders could incur material swiss withholding tax liabilities that could significantly detract from, or eliminate, the benefits of the distributions and the merger. in addition, tyco could become liable to indemnify pentair for part of any swiss withholding tax liabilities to the extent provided under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. 22 table of contents we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances as a result of the distributions because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted as a result of the distributions in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distributions. even if the distributions otherwise qualify for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate-level gain to tyco and certain of its affiliates under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares, pentair's shares or adt's shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distributions. any acquisitions or issuances of our shares, pentair's shares or adt's shares within two years after the distributions generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, pentair or adt may be able to rebut that presumption. to preserve the tax-free treatment to us of the distributions, under the 2012 tax sharing agreement that we entered with pentair and adt, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distributions and related transactions from being tax-free. further, for the two-year period following the distributions, without obtaining the consent of pentair and adt, a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, we may be prohibited from: approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares when combined with any other changes in ownership of our common shares, redeeming equity securities, selling or otherwise disposing of more than 35% of our assets, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. moreover, the 2012 tax sharing agreement also provides that we will be responsible for any taxes imposed on pentair or any of its affiliates or on adt or any of its affiliates as a result of the failure of the distributions or the internal transactions to qualify for favorable treatment under the code if such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the distributions by or in respect of us, any of our affiliates or our shareholders. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland changes to swiss law, in particular significantly heightened risk of criminal penalties for executives and directors, could make it difficult for us to recruit and retain executives and directors. in march 2013, swiss voters passed a ballot initiative as a result of which switzerland's federal constitution was amended. among other things, this constitutional amendment requires the adoption of legislation that prohibits certain compensation practices in relation to a company's directors and members of executive management, such as severance compensation, advance compensation and incentive commissions in connection with the sale and purchase of businesses. the constitutional amendment further requires a public company's board of directors to submit the proposed compensation for directors and members of executive management to a binding shareholder vote. the initial ordinance implementing these requirements is expected to become effective on january 1, 2014. based on the preliminary draft ordinance made public in june 2013, we expect, among other things, the ordinance to provide for the imprisonment of directors and members of executive management for up to three years if such individuals violate certain provisions of the ordinance. we further believe that certain ordinary course compensation practices and other activities that we view as widely accepted among our peers may no longer be permissible under swiss law. the draft ordinance further leaves considerable uncertainty as to the legality of certain compensation arrangements for our directors and executives under swiss law. as a result, our ability to compete for talent with our peer companies, and our board's ability to fulfill its compensation oversight and executive succession planning duties, may be materially adversely affected. additionally, swiss voters are currently expected to vote on a number of ballot initiatives that may adversely affect the general business climate in switzerland. among other things, a ballot initiative, on which swiss voters are expected to vote in november 2013, generally referred to as the 1:12 initiative, would require, if approved, that the highest salary paid by a company to an employee to not be greater than twelve times the lowest salary paid by the same company. if the 1:12 initiative is approved and implemented by legislation, we believe that the ensuing limitations would materially adversely affect our ability to compete with our peer companies incorporated outside switzerland. swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of tyco's securities. because of differences between swiss law and u.s. state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of swiss companies and those incorporated in the u.s., it may not be possible to enforce in switzerland court judgments obtained in the united states against tyco based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws 23 table of contents of the united states. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon tyco or its directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. original actions against persons in switzerland based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws are governed, among other things, by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on international private law. this statute provides that the application of provisions of non-swiss law by the courts in switzerland shall be precluded if the result was incompatible with swiss public policy. also, mandatory provisions of swiss law may be applicable regardless of any other law that would otherwise apply. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. our status as a swiss corporation may limit our flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management and may cause us to be unable to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to swiss withholding tax, or at all. swiss law allows our shareholders to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without additional shareholder approval, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. our current authorized share capital will expire on march 6, 2015. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares. swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. for example, dividends must be approved by shareholders. these swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. under swiss law, a swiss corporation may pay dividends only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous fiscal years, or if the corporation has distributable reserves, each as evidenced by its audited statutory balance sheet. distributable reserves are generally booked either as "free reserves" or as "contributed surplus" (contributions received from shareholders) in the "reserve from capital contributions." furthermore, generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to our shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder, unless the distribution is made to shareholders (i) by way of a reduction of par value or (ii) assuming certain conditions are met, out of qualifying contributed surplus ( kapitaleinlage ) accumulated on or after january 1, 1997. payments may be made out of registered share capital-the aggregate par value of a company's registered shares-only by way of a capital reduction. tyco's distributable reserves based on its swiss statutory account for fiscal year 2013 are chf 25 billion, and its registered share capital is approximately chf 243 million. tyco's distributable reserves will be reduced by any additional distributions approved by our shareholders, including any ordinary cash dividends approved by our shareholders at the annual general meeting in march 2014. if we are not successful in our efforts to make dividends through a reduction of par value or out of qualifying contributed surplus, then any dividends paid by us generally will be subject to a swiss federal withholding tax. the withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the swiss federal tax administration. a u.s. holder that qualifies for benefits under the convention between the united states of america and the swiss confederation for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on income, which we refer to as the "u.s.-swiss treaty," may apply for a refund of the tax 24 table of contents withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in the case of qualified pension funds). even if we are able to pay dividends in the future, there can be no assurance that we will meet the requirements to pay such dividends free from swiss withholding tax or that swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. we cannot provide assurance that the current swiss law with respect to distributions out of qualifying contributed surplus will not be changed or that a change in swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of qualifying contributed surplus becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. in addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available to us for par value reductions and the amount of qualifying contributed surplus available to us to pay out as distributions is limited. under present swiss tax laws, repurchases of shares for the purposes of cancellation are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% swiss withholding tax on the difference between the repurchase price and the par value except, since january 1, 2011, to the extent attributable to qualifying contributed surplus ( kapitaleinlagereserven ) if any. if, and to the extent that, the repurchase of shares is out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves, the swiss withholding becomes due. no partial liquidation treatment applies, and no withholding tax is triggered, if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares. however, should such treasury shares remain in treasury for six years, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six year period. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures to which we believe we are subject. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign currency options, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and forward commodity contracts. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having strong investment grade long-term credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's and moody's. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. foreign currency exposures we hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates related to operating entities through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts. additionally, for our corporate financing entities we manage the foreign currency exposure through a combination of multi-currency notional pool and forward contracts. our largest exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, mexican peso and korean won against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign currency exchange contract is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 27, 2013 . a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $11 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $14 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. 56 table of contents prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we hedged net investments in certain foreign operations through the use of foreign currency exchange forward contracts. the objective was to minimize the exposure to changes in the value of the foreign currency denominated net investment. as of the quarter ended december 30, 2011, we terminated our net investment hedge. accordingly, the aggregate notional amount of these hedges was nil for both september 27, 2013 and september 28, 2012. as of both september 27, 2013 and september 28, 2012 , $2.0 billion of intercompany loans have been designated as permanent in nature. for the fiscal years ended september 27, 2013 , september 28, 2012 and september 30, 2011 , we recorded $3 million and $48 million of cumulative translation gain and $2 million of a cumulative translation loss, respectively, through accumulated other comprehensive loss related to these loans. interest rate exposures we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap transactions with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties, which are designated as fair value hedges for accounting purposes. since the third quarter of 2009, tifsa has been entering into interest rate swap transactions with the objective of managing the exposure to interest rate risk by converting interest rates of fixed-rate debt to variable rates. in these contracts, tifsa agrees with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated on an agreed-upon notional principal amount. in connection with the debt tenders and redemption during the quarter ended september 28, 2012, tifsa settled all outstanding interest rate swaps. accordingly, as of september 27, 2013 and september 28, 2012 , the total gross notional amount of our interest rate swap contracts was nil for both periods.risk factors 7 risk factors risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters. environmental matters we are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. as of september 26, 2014 , we concluded that it was probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $38 million to $79 million . as of september 26, 2014 , tyco concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $42 million , of which $23 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and accounts payable and $19 million is included in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet. the majority of the liabilities described above relate to ongoing remediation efforts at a facility in the company's global products segment located in marinette, wisconsin, which the company acquired in 1990 in connection with its acquisition of, among other things, the ansul product line. prior to tyco's acquisition, ansul manufactured arsenic-based agricultural herbicides at the marinette facility, which resulted in significant arsenic contamination of soil and groundwater on the marinette site and in parts of the adjoining menominee river. ansul has been engaged in ongoing remediation efforts at the marinette site since 1990, and in february 2009 entered into an administrative consent order (the "consent order") with the u.s. environmental protection agency to address the presence of arsenic at the marinette site. under this agreement, ansul's principal obligations are to contain the arsenic contamination on the site, pump and treat on-site groundwater, dredge, treat and properly dispose of contaminated sediments in the adjoining river areas, and monitor contamination levels on an ongoing basis. activities completed under the consent order since 2009 include the installation of a subsurface barrier wall around the facility to contain contaminated groundwater, the installation of a groundwater extraction and treatment system and the dredging and offsite disposal of treated river sediment. as of september 26, 2014 , the company concluded that its remaining remediation and monitoring costs related to the marinette facility were in the range of approximately $27 million to $54 million . the company's best estimate within that range is approximately $30 million , of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $12 million is included in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet. during the years ended september 26, 2014, september 27, 2013, and september 28, 2012, the company recorded charges of nil, $100 million, and $17 million, respectively, in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. although the company has recorded its best estimate of the costs that it will incur to remediate and monitor the arsenic contamination at the marinette facility, it is possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement developments, the results of environmental studies or other factors could change the company's expectations with respect to future charges and 6 table of contents cash outlays, and such changes could be material to the company's future results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. employees as of september 26, 2014 , we employed approximately 57,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 20,000 were employed in the united states and approximately 37,000 were outside the united states. approximately 8,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. available information tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. investors may read and copy any document that tyco files, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, dc 20549. investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec, from which investors can electronically access tyco's sec filings. our internet website is www.tyco.com . we make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, reports filed pursuant to section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the sec. in addition, we have posted the charters for our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee, and nominating and governance committee, as well as our board governance principles and guide to ethical conduct, on our website under the headings "about board of directors" and "about corporate social responsibility." the annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. we will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as technological obsolescence, labor relations, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. risks relating to our businesses general economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain markets that we serve. for example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial and residential construction, industrial capital expenditures for facility expansions and maintenance and the amount of discretionary business and consumer spending, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. even if demand for our products is not negatively affected, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. much of the demand for installation of security products and fire detection and suppression solutions is driven by commercial and residential construction and industrial facility expansion and maintenance projects. commercial and residential construction projects are heavily dependent on general economic conditions, localized demand for commercial and residential real estate and availability of credit. in recent years, many commercial and residential real estate markets have experienced significant fluctuations in supply and demand, and this volatility may continue indefinitely. in addition, most commercial and residential real estate developers rely heavily on project financing from banks and other institutional lenders in order to initiate and complete projects. declines in real estate values in many parts of the world have led to significant reductions in the availability of project financing, even in markets where demand may otherwise be sufficient to support new construction. these factors have in turn hampered demand for new fire detection and suppression and security installations. levels of industrial capital expenditures for facility expansions and maintenance turn on general economic conditions, economic conditions within specific industries we serve, expectations of future market behavior and available financing. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. 7 table of contents the businesses of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical and petrochemical companies, mining and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. during such economic downturns, customers in these industries historically have tended to delay major capital projects, including greenfield construction, expensive maintenance projects and upgrades. additionally, demand for our products and services may be affected by volatility in energy and commodity prices and fluctuating demand forecasts, as our customers may be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. although our industrial customers tend to be less dependent on project financing than real estate developers, disruptions in financial markets and banking systems, could make credit and capital markets difficult for our customers to access, and could raise the cost of new debt for our customers to prohibitive levels. any difficulty in accessing these markets and the increased associated costs can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during periods of favorable end-market conditions. many of our customers outside of the industrial and commercial sectors, including governmental and institutional customers, have experienced budgetary constraints as sources of revenue, including tax receipts, general obligation and construction bonds, endowments and donations, have been negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions. these budgetary constraints have in the past and may in the future reduce demand for our products and services among governmental and institutional customers. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in the industries we serve. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face competition in each of our businesses, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products and services. if we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected. we operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service providers, both domestically and on a global basis. our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from alternative service providers around the world. currently, key components of our competitive position are our ability to bring to market industry-leading products and services, to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. these factors require continuous management focus on maintaining our competitive position through technological innovation, cost reduction, productivity improvement and a regular appraisal of our asset portfolio. if we are unable to maintain our position as a market leader, or to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by evolving industry standards. although many of our largest competitors are also global industrial companies, we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products and services at lower cost than ours, particularly in emerging markets, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. we have found that in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire, manufacture and bring competitive products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. adapting our businesses to serve more local markets will require us to invest considerable resources in building our distribution channels and engineering and manufacturing capabilities in those markets to ensure that we can address customer demand. even when we invest in growing our business in local markets, we may not be successful for any number of reasons, including competitive pressure from regional and local businesses that may have superior local capabilities or products that are produced more locally at lower cost. our ability to develop or acquire new products and services can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis. moreover, as we introduce new products, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in the design of a product or in its application to a specified use, 8 table of contents which could result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. even after introduction, new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. as a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance and our brand images could suffer. in addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. as a result, the failure to effectively adapt our products and services to the needs of local markets, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance, the potential for product defects or the obsolescence of our products and services could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. if a customer or third party believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our employees or a security or fire system failure, he or she may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment could be substantial. in particular, because our products and services are intended to protect lives and real and personal property, we may have greater exposure to litigation risks than businesses that provide other products and services. we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our installation, service and monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances, and we typically maintain product liability insurance to mitigate the risk that our products and services fail to operate as expected. however, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, it is possible that contract limitations may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable, that our insurance coverage is not adequate, or that insurance carriers deny coverage of our claims. as a result, such employee acts or omissions or system failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business. our business operates and serves consumers worldwide. there are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: economic volatility and the impact of economic conditions in various regions; the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets, especially our intellectual property rights, through non-u.s. legal systems; possibility of unfavorable circumstances from host country laws, regulations or licensing requirements; fluctuations in revenues, operating margins and other financial measures due to currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency and earnings repatriation; trade protection measures, import or export restrictions, licensing requirements and local fire and security codes and standards; increased costs and risks of developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of foreign operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; issues related to occupational safety and adherence to local labor laws and regulations; potentially adverse tax developments; longer payment cycles; changes in the general political, social and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation, as well as new or changed restrictions regarding foreign ownership of assets - in particular with respect to security products or services that may be viewed by certain governments as sovereign security interests; the presence of corruption in certain countries; and fluctuations in available municipal funding in those instances where a project is government financed. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 table of contents volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we intend to enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other non-metal commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we may enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing business. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we will continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and services offerings. these acquisitions are likely to include businesses in emerging markets, which are often riskier than acquisitions in developed markets. we cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. moreover, we may be unable to obtain strategic or operational benefits that are expected from our acquisitions. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. a significant percentage of our future growth is anticipated to come from emerging markets, and if we are unable to expand our operations in emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected. one aspect of our growth strategy is to seek significant growth in emerging markets, including china, india, latin america and the middle east, through both organic investments and through acquisitions. emerging markets generally involve greater financial and operational risks than more mature markets, where legal systems are more developed and familiar to us. in some cases, emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, are more susceptible to corruption, and are locations where it may be more difficult to impose corporate standards and procedures and the extraterritorial laws of the united states. negative or uncertain political climates and military disruptions in developing and emerging markets could also adversely affect us. 10 table of contents we cannot guarantee that our growth strategy will be successful. if we are unable to manage the risks inherent in our growth strategy in emerging markets, including civil unrest, international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches and failure to maintain compliance with multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. failure to maintain and upgrade the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable and other information; non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such information; or a violation of the company's privacy and security policies with respect to such information, could adversely affect us. we are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers, stockholders and employees, including video and other customer data obtained in connection with monitoring and analytical services. the legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain such information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. a significant actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, stockholder, employee or our data, whether by third parties or as a result of employee malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against us. in addition, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our operations. increasingly, our security products and services are accessed wirelessly and through the internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services wirelessly or via the internet may affect us and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. failure to maintain, upgrade and consolidate our information and technology networks could adversely affect us. we are continuously upgrading and consolidating our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality, acquiring new systems with new functionality and moving to cloud-based technology solutions. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. our culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular we strive to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified engineers and managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. many of our manufacturing processes, and many of the integrated solutions we offer, are highly technical in nature. our ability to expand or maintain our business depends on our ability to hire, train and retain engineers and other technical professionals with the skills necessary to understand and adapt to the continuously developing needs of our customers. this includes developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where the depth of skilled employees is often limited and competition for resources is intense. our geographic expansion strategy in emerging 11 table of contents markets depends on our ability to attract, retain and integrate qualified managers and engineers. if we fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience excessive turnover, we may experience declining sales, manufacturing delays or other inefficiencies, increased recruiting, training and relocation costs and other difficulties, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we may be required to recognize substantial impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets periodically to determine whether they are impaired. disruptions to our business, unfavorable end-market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in material charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. we maintain significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, and we believe these balances are recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected with the annual impairment analysis. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our residential and commercial security businesses may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. if our residential or commercial security customers are dissatisfied with our products or services and switch to competitive products or services, or disconnect for other reasons, our recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services we provide. we amortize the costs of acquired monitoring contracts and related customer relationships based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if customer disconnect rates were to rise significantly, we may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continually evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. in addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and any divestiture we undertake could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. we employ over 57,000 people worldwide. approximately 14% of these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works council. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and works councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works council, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. additionally, a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could materially and adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. stoppages by employees of our customers could also result in reduced demand for our products. a material disruption of our operations, particularly at our monitoring and/or manufacturing facilities, could adversely affect our business. if our operations, particularly at our monitoring facilities and/or manufacturing facilities, were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, sabotage, adverse weather conditions, public health crises, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to effectively respond to alarm signals, fill 12 table of contents customer orders and otherwise meet obligations to or demand from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures or purchase alternative material at higher costs to fill customer orders, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. we maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. however, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we may be unable to execute on our strategic priorities. in connection with the spin-offs of our former north american residential and small business security business and flow control businesses in september 2012, we anticipated certain financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to tyco, and in particular we commenced certain productivity and other strategic initiatives following the spin-offs intended to reduce complexity, restructure operations and leverage tyco's scale in certain areas such as sourcing. we may not be able to achieve the anticipated results of these actions on the scale that we expected, and the anticipated benefits of the spin-offs, and the productivity and other strategic initiatives may not be fully realized. we and adt have entered into non-compete and non-solicit restrictions that prohibited us from competing with adt in the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada, and prohibited adt from competing with us in the commercial fire and security businesses, in each case until september 29, 2014. the non-compete provisions included in the adt separation and distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs have expired. these provisions (i) prohibited us from competing with adt in the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada and (ii) prohibited adt from competing with tyco in the commercial fire and security businesses, subject to certain small business related exceptions, in each case until september 29, 2014. in addition, the adt separation and distribution agreement contains non-solicitation provisions that prevented (i) us from soliciting adt's residential small business customers in the united states and canada and (ii) adt from soliciting our security customers, in each case until september 29, 2014. these provisions effectively prevented us from expanding into adt's business, and adt from expanding into our business, in these jurisdictions until september 29, 2014. because these restrictions have expired, adt is no longer contractually prohibited from competing with us for commercial security customers, especially smaller businesses. adt has begun to compete with us and, if it is successful in this regard, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results and operations and cash flows. in connection with the 2012 separation, we re-branded our north american commercial security business to tyco integrated security and we no longer own the right to use the adt brand name in the united states and canada. prior to the spin-off of adt in september 2012, we re-branded our north american commercial security business to tyco integrated security. there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve name recognition or status under our new brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed. the failure of these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, resulting in reduced revenues. in addition, as a result of the spin-offs, we own the adt brand name in jurisdictions outside of the united states and canada, and adt owns the brand name in the united states and canada. although we have entered agreements with adt designed to protect the value of the adt brand, we cannot assure you that actions taken by adt will not negatively impact the value of the brand outside of the united states and canada. these factors expose us to the risk that the adt brand name could suffer reputational damage or devaluation for reasons outside of our control, including adt's business conduct in the united states and canada. any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the normal course of our business, we are subject to claims and lawsuits, including from time to time claims for damages related to product liability and warranties, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, and litigation related to employee matters, wages and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. furthermore, we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. the defense of these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of our management's attention. in addition, we 13 table of contents may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies or suffer from adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us, such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, and our insurance carriers may deny coverage for claims made by us. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our businesses operate in regulated industries and are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. our operations and employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local licensing laws, fire and security codes and standards and other laws and regulations. in certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. the loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, our systems generally must meet fire and building codes in order to be installed, and it is possible that our current or future products will fail to meet such codes, which could require us to make costly modifications to our products or to forgo marketing in certain jurisdictions. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations were to change or if we or our products failed to comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various non u.s. governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, and laws regulating the foreign ownership of assets. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"), increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti- 14 table of contents corruption laws, including the fcpa, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. furthermore, in september 2012 we agreed to the settlement of charges related to alleged fcpa violations with the doj and sec. in connection with the settlement, we entered into a consent agreement with the sec and a non-prosecution agreement with the doj, and a subsidiary of ours (which is no longer part of tyco as a result of the 2012 separation) pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to violate the fcpa. pursuant to the three-year non-prosecution agreement, we have acknowledged that a number of our subsidiaries made payments, both directly and indirectly, to government officials in order to obtain and retain business with private and state-owned entities, and falsely described the payments in the subsidiaries' books, records and accounts. the non-prosecution agreement also acknowledges tyco's timely, voluntary and complete disclosure to the doj, and our cooperation with the doj's investigation-including a global internal investigation concerning bribery and related misconduct-and extensive remediation. under the non-prosecution and other agreements, we have agreed to cooperate with and report periodically to the doj and other governmental authorities on matters related to our compliance efforts, including informing the doj when we become aware of possible violations of the fcpa as a result of our global audit program, and to continue to implement an enhanced compliance program and internal controls designed to prevent and detect fcpa violations. notwithstanding our settlement of the doj and sec investigations, we may be subject to allegations of fcpa violations in the future and we may be subject to commercial impacts such as lost revenue from customers who decline to do business with us as a result of these compliance matters. if so, or if we are unable to comply with the provisions of the non-prosecution and other agreements, we may be subject to additional investigation or enforcement by the doj or sec. in such a case, we could be subject to material fines, injunctions on future conduct, the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we and certain of our subsidiaries, including yarway corporation ( yarway ) and grinnell llc ( grinnell ), along with numerous other third parties, are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos containing materials. over 90% of cases pending against affiliates of the company have been filed against yarway or grinnell, and have typically involved product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were used with asbestos containing components. claims filed against yarway derive from yarway's purported use of asbestos-containing gaskets and packing in the sale or distribution of steam valves and traps and from its alleged manufacture of asbestos-containing expansion joint packing. yarway's alleged manufacture, distribution and/or sale of asbestos-containing materials ceased by 1988, and yarway ceased substantially all of its manufacturing, distribution and sales operations in 2003. claims filed against grinnell typically allege that it manufactured, sold or distributed valves, gaskets, piping and sprinkler systems containing asbestos. on april 22, 2013, yarway filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code ( chapter 11 ) in the united states bankruptcy court for the district of delaware ( bankruptcy court ), and on october 9, 2014, the company reached an agreement in principle with yarway and the representatives of current and future yarway asbestos claimants to fund a section 524(g) trust for the resolution and payment of current and future yarway asbestos claims. under the chapter 11 plan to implement the trust, an asbestos settlement trust (the yarway trust ) that conforms to the provisions of section 524(g) of the u.s. bankruptcy code will be established and, on the effective date of the chapter 11 plan, the company and yarway will contribute to the yarway trust a total of $325 million in cash ( settlement consideration ). in exchange for the settlement consideration, the company and its affiliates will receive the benefit of a release from yarway and an injunction under section 524(g) of the bankruptcy code permanently enjoining the assertion of yarway asbestos claims against those parties. the agreement in principle is subject, among other things, to the negotiation and filing of a chapter 11 plan of reorganization for yarway incorporating the terms of such agreement (the plan ), acceptance of the plan by at least 75% of 15 table of contents yarway's current asbestos claimants voting on such plan, confirmation of the plan by the bankruptcy court and approval of the injunction in favor of the company and its affiliates by the united states district court for the district of delaware ( district court ). although the company has agreed in principle to the terms of the plan with representatives of current and future yarway asbestos claimants, there can be no assurance that all of the conditions to implementation of the plan will be met, or that the final plan will reflect all of the terms agreed to in principle. if the plan were not implemented in accordance with the terms agreed in principle, the company and its affiliates may not receive the benefit of the injunction described above, and the relief ultimately granted by the bankruptcy court may not be satisfactory to yarway, the company or its affiliates. a failure to obtain satisfactory relief could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, the company performed a revised valuation of its non-yarway asbestos-related liabilities and corresponding insurance assets and recorded a net charge, excluding yarway, of $240 million. although the company's methodology established a range of estimates of reasonably possible outcomes, the company recorded its best estimate within such range based upon information known at the time. the company's estimated gross asbestos liability, excluding yarway, of $538 million was recorded within the company's consolidated balance sheet as a liability for pending and future claims and related defense costs, and separately as an asset for insurance recoveries of $245 million. the amounts recorded by the company for asbestos-related liabilities and insurance-related assets are based on the company's strategies for resolving its asbestos claims, currently available information, and a number of estimates and assumptions. key variables and assumptions include the number and type of new claims that are filed each year, the average cost of resolution of claims, the identity of defendants, the resolution of coverage issues with insurance carriers, amount of insurance, and the solvency risk with respect to the company's insurance carriers. many of these factors are closely linked, such that a change in one variable or assumption will impact one or more of the others, and no single variable or assumption predominately influences the determination of the company's asbestos-related liabilities and insurance-related assets. furthermore, predictions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty in the later portion of the projection period. other factors that may affect the company's liability and cash payments for asbestos-related matters include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms of state or federal tort legislation and the applicability of insurance policies among subsidiaries. as a result, actual liabilities or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in the company's calculations vary significantly from actual results. if actual liabilities are significantly higher than those recorded, the cost of resolving such liabilities claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from other environmental agencies that conditions at several sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations by us or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, oil, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and structure decontamination and demolition, including asbestos abatement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. 16 table of contents we depend on third-party licenses for our products and services. we rely on certain software technology that we license from third parties and use in our products and services to perform key functions and provide critical functionality, particularly in our commercial security business. because our products and services incorporate software developed and maintained by third parties we are, to a certain extent, dependent upon such third parties' ability to maintain or enhance their current products and services, to ensure that their products are free of defects or security vulnerabilities, to develop new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. further, these third-party technology licenses may not always be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if our agreements with third-party vendors are not renewed or the third-party software fails to address the needs of our software products and services, we would be required to find alternative software products and services or technologies of equal performance or functionality. we cannot assure that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software if we lose the license to this software, it becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products and services or is otherwise not adequately maintained or updated. furthermore, even if we obtain licenses to alternative software products or services that provide the functionality we need, we may be required to replace hardware installed at our monitoring centers and at our customers' sites, including security system control panels and peripherals, in order to effect our integration of or migration to alternative software products. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. infringement or expiration of our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties, could negatively affect us. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology, trade secrets or know-how. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our trade secrets, know-how, business strategy and other proprietary information, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. finally, for those products in our portfolio that rely on patent protection, once a patent has expired, the product is generally open to competition. products under patent protection usually generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected by patents. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we are, from time to time, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, including practicing entities and non-practicing entities. regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming, and the litigation process is subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. intellectual property lawsuits or claims may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies. police departments in a limited number of jurisdictions do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance. we have offered affected customers the option of receiving responses from private guard companies, in most cases through contracts with us, which increases the overall cost to customers. if more police departments, whether inside or outside the u.s., were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies, our ability to attract and retain customers could be negatively impacted and our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. the company may be subject to risks arising from regulations applicable to companies doing business with the united states government. the company's customers include many federal, state and local government authorities. doing business with the united states government and state and local authorities subjects the company to unusual risks, including dependence on the level of government spending and compliance with and changes in governmental procurement and security regulations. agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification, either at the convenience of the government or for the company's failure to perform under the applicable contract. the company is subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement and security regulations. if 17 table of contents the company were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. risks related to our liquidity and financial markets disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, by increasing our funding costs or reducing the availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain customary financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. in addition, the indentures governing our bonds contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale-leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate purposes, including dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. 18 table of contents we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health, and may decrease our profitability. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital stock, the terms of the debt or capital stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in us would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us. risks relating to tax matters examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the irs, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. tyco's and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the 2007 separation. we previously disclosed that in connection with u.s. federal tax audits, the irs has raised a number of issues and proposed tax adjustments for periods beginning with the 1997 tax year. in particular, we have been unable to resolve with the irs matters related to the treatment of certain intercompany debt transactions in existence prior to the 2007 separation. as a result, on june 20, 2013, we received notices of deficiency from the irs asserting that several of our former u.s. subsidiaries owe additional taxes of $883.3 million plus penalties of $154 million based on audits of the 1997 through 2000 tax years of tyco and its subsidiaries as they existed at that time. in addition, we received final partnership administrative adjustments for certain u.s. partnerships owned by former u.s. subsidiaries with respect to which an additional tax deficiency of approximately $30 million is expected to be asserted. these amounts exclude interest and do not reflect the impact on subsequent periods if the irs position described below is ultimately proved correct. in addition, the adjustments proposed by the irs are subject to the sharing provisions of a tax sharing agreement entered in 2007 with covidien and te connectivity (the "2007 tax sharing agreement") under which tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of shared income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns. the irs asserted in the notices of deficiency that substantially all of tyco's intercompany debt originated during the 1997 - 2000 period should not be treated as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and disallowed interest and related deductions recognized on u.s. income tax returns totaling approximately $2.9 billion. we strongly disagree with the irs position and have filed petitions with the u.s. tax court contesting the irs proposed adjustments. a trial date has been set for february 2016. we believe that we have meritorious defenses for our tax filings, that the irs positions with regard to these matters is inconsistent with the applicable tax laws and existing treasury regulations, and that the previously reported taxes for the years in question are appropriate. furthermore, we believe that tyco's income tax reserves and the liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet for the tax sharing arrangements are appropriate. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters, and the impact of that resolution, are uncertain and could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in particular, if the irs is successful in asserting its claim, it would have an adverse impact on interest deductions related to the same intercompany debt in subsequent time periods, totaling approximately $6.6 billion, which is expected to be disallowed by the irs. we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and te connectivity's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. in connection with the 2007 separation, tyco entered into the 2007 tax sharing agreement, which governs the rights and obligations of each party with respect to certain pre-2007 separation tax liabilities and certain tax liabilities arising in connection with the 2007 separation. as noted above, tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 separation. in the event the 2007 separation, or certain related transactions, is determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the 2007 separation by tyco, covidien, or te connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien, or te connectivity as a result thereof. if none of the companies is responsible for such failure, then tyco, covidien, and te connectivity would be responsible for such taxes in the 19 table of contents same manner and in the same proportions as other shared tax liabilities under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. if any party to the 2007 tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the 2007 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and te connectivity's tax liabilities. we share responsibility for certain of our, pentair's and adt's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. in connection with the distributions, we entered into the 2012 tax sharing agreement with pentair and adt that is separate from the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which governs the rights and obligations of tyco, adt and pentair for certain tax liabilities before the distributions, including tyco's obligations under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. under the 2012 tax sharing agreement tyco, pentair and adt share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to adt's u.s., tyco flow control's and tyco's income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by tyco with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement, excluding approximately $175 million of pre-2012 separation related tax liabilities that were anticipated to be paid prior to the 2012 separation (collectively, "shared tax liabilities"). tyco will be responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. pentair and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. tyco, pentair and adt will share 52.5% 20% and 27.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20%, 27.5%, and 52.5% by pentair, adt and tyco, respectively. as of september 28, 2012, tyco established liabilities representing the fair market value of its obligations under the 2012 tax sharing arrangement which is recorded in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet with an offset to tyco shareholders' equity. in addition, we entered into a non-income tax sharing agreement with adt in connection with the adt distribution. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under these agreements, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that, if any party were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of certain taxes that may arise as a result of the failure of the distributions to be tax free (such taxes, as defined in the 2012 tax sharing agreement, "distribution taxes"), each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, pentair's and adt's tax liabilities. if the distributions or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or both adt and pentair could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco has received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distributions to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distributions will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and/or 361 of the code, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of adt common stock or of pentair common shares. the private letter ruling also provides that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter ruling, tyco has received an opinion from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distributions for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the private letter ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, pentair and adt regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distributions or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership (which might take into account changes in pentair stock ownership resulting from the merger) or asset ownership after the distributions. an opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinions will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with 20 table of contents retroactive effect. if the distributions ultimately are determined to be taxable, the distributions could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to you for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and you could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, we would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the pentair common shares and the shares of adt common stock distributed to our shareholders on the distribution date over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we, pentair or adt could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions are taxable. in addition, under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distributions or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distributions by us, pentair or adt, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, pentair or adt as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distributions by us, pentair or adt, then we, pentair and adt will share the liability in the manner and according to the sharing percentages set forth in the 2012 tax sharing agreement. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances as a result of the distributions because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted as a result of the distributions in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distributions. even if the distributions otherwise qualify for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate-level gain to tyco and certain of its affiliates under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares, pentair's shares or adt's shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distributions. any acquisitions or issuances of our shares, pentair's shares or adt's shares within two years after the distributions generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, pentair or adt may be able to rebut that presumption. to preserve the tax-free treatment to us of the distributions, under the 2012 tax sharing agreement that we entered with pentair and adt, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distributions and related transactions from being tax-free. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. moreover, the 2012 tax sharing agreement also provides that we will be responsible for any taxes imposed on pentair or any of its affiliates or on adt or any of its affiliates as a result of the failure of the distributions or the internal transactions to qualify for favorable treatment under the code if such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the distributions by or in respect of us, any of our affiliates or our shareholders. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation the anticipated benefits of our change in jurisdiction of incorporation may not be realized. at a special general meeting held on september 9, 2014, our shareholders approved a merger agreement, dated may 30, 2014, between tyco international ltd. and tyco ireland, as described in more detail in the proxy statement / prospectus mailed to shareholders on august 1, 2014 related to the merger. we expect this merger to close in november 2014. we may not realize the benefits we anticipate from the merger, and our failure to realize those benefits could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. legislative action in the united states could materially and adversely affect us. tax-related legislation legislative action may be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could limit the availability of tax benefits or deductions that we currently claim, override tax treaties upon which we rely, or otherwise affect the taxes that the united states imposes on our worldwide operations. such changes could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and/or require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. in addition, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding or limiting our ability, currently as a swiss company and in the near future as an irish company, to take advantage of tax treaties with the united states, we could incur additional tax expense and/or otherwise incur business detriment. 21 table of contents legislation relating to governmental contracts various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. your rights as a shareholder will change as a result of the merger. the completion of the merger between the company and tyco ireland will change the governing law that applies to our shareholders from swiss law (which applies to the company and its common shares) to irish law (which applies to tyco ireland and its ordinary shares). many of the principal attributes of tyco international ltd. common shares and tyco ireland ordinary shares will be materially similar. however, when the merger is completed, your future rights as a shareholder under irish corporate law will differ from your current rights as a shareholder under swiss corporate law. in addition, tyco ireland's proposed articles of association will differ from tyco international ltd.'s articles of association and organizational regulations. see comparison of rights of shareholders in the proxy statement / prospectus related to the merger for more details. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, tyco ireland will be governed by the irish companies acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of tyco international plc securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. our effective tax rate may increase. although we expect that the merger between tyco international ltd. and tyco ireland will not have a material effect on our worldwide effective tax rate, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, including the potential legislative actions described in these risk factors and our effective tax rate may increase. additionally, the tax laws of ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material increase in our effective tax rate. tyco ireland will seek irish high court approval of the creation of distributable reserves. tyco ireland expects this will be forthcoming but cannot guarantee this. under irish law, dividends may only be paid (and share repurchases and redemptions must generally be funded) out of distributable reserves, which tyco ireland will not have immediately following the closing of the merger between tyco international ltd. and tyco ireland. the creation of distributable reserves of tyco ireland by way of a capital reduction of tyco ireland requires the approval of the irish high court. the approval of the irish high court is expected within approximately six to twelve weeks following the closing of the merger between tyco international ltd. and tyco ireland. we are not aware of any reason why the irish high court would not approve the creation of distributable reserves. however, the issuance of the required order is a matter for the discretion of the irish high court. approval of the creation of distributable reserves by the irish high court may also take substantially longer than we anticipate. in the event that distributable reserves of tyco ireland are not created, no distributions by way of dividends, share repurchases or otherwise will be permitted under irish law until such time as the group has created sufficient distributable reserves from its trading activities. transfers of tyco ireland ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. for the majority of transfers of tyco ireland ordinary shares, there will not be any irish stamp duty. however, irish stamp duty will become payable in respect of certain share transfers occurring after completion of the merger between tyco international ltd. and tyco ireland. a transfer of tyco ireland ordinary shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially (i.e. 22 table of contents through dtc) to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially will not be subject to irish stamp duty (unless the transfer involves a change in the nominee that is the record holder of the transferred shares). a transfer of tyco ireland ordinary shares by a seller who holds shares directly (i.e. not through dtc) to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. a shareholder who directly holds shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account to be held through dtc without giving rise to irish stamp duty provided that the shareholder has confirmed to tyco ireland's transfer agent that there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and, at the time of the transfer, there is no agreement in place for a sale of the shares. because of the potential irish stamp duty on transfers of tyco ireland ordinary shares, we strongly recommend that all directly registered tyco international ltd. shareholders open broker accounts so they can transfer their shares into a broker account as soon as possible, and in any event prior to completion of the merger with tyco ireland. we also strongly recommend that any person who wishes to acquire tyco ireland ordinary shares after completion of the merger acquire such shares as a beneficial holder. we currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. in other cases tyco ireland may, in its absolute discretion, pay or cause one of its affiliates to pay any stamp duty. tyco ireland's memorandum and articles of association as they will be in effect after the merger provide that, in the event of any such payment, tyco ireland (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) may have a lien against the tyco ireland ordinary shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in tyco ireland ordinary shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by tyco ireland. dividends you receive may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, as an irish tax resident company, we may be required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. whether tyco ireland will be required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax from dividends paid to a shareholder will depend largely on whether that shareholder is resident for tax purposes in a relevant territory. a list of the relevant territories is included as annex c to the proxy statement/prospectus related to the merger between tyco international ltd. and tyco ireland. dividends received by you could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of tyco ireland's ordinary shares generally will not be subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in tyco ireland. tyco ireland shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax generally will have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividend unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in tyco. if tyco ireland ordinary shares are not eligible for deposit and clearing within the facilities of dtc, then transactions in tyco ireland's securities may be disrupted. the facilities of dtc are a widely-used mechanism that allow for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in the dtc system, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. upon the completion of the merger between tyco international ltd. and tyco ireland, tyco ireland ordinary shares will be eligible for deposit and clearing within the dtc system. tyco ireland has entered into arrangements with dtc whereby tyco ireland will agree to indemnify dtc for any stamp duty that may be assessed upon it as a result of its service as a depository and clearing agency for tyco ireland's ordinary shares. dtc is not obligated to accept tyco ireland ordinary shares for deposit and clearing within its facilities at the closing and, even if dtc does initially accept tyco ireland ordinary shares, it will generally have discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agency for tyco ireland ordinary shares. if dtc determines at any time after the completion of the merger that tyco ireland ordinary shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe tyco ireland ordinary shares would not be eligible for continued listing on a u.s. securities exchange or inclusion in the standard &amp; poor's 500 index and trading in tyco ireland ordinary shares would be disrupted. while tyco ireland would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve its listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the tyco ireland ordinary shares. 23 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures to which we believe we are subject. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign currency options, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and forward commodity contracts. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having strong investment grade long-term credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's and moody's. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. foreign currency exposures we hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates related to operating entities through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts. additionally, for our corporate financing entities we manage the foreign currency exposure through a combination of multi-currency notional pool and forward contracts. our largest exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with the british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign currency exchange contract is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 26, 2014 . a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $3 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $3 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. as of september 26, 2014 and september 27, 2013 , respectively, $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion of intercompany loans have been designated as permanent in nature. for the fiscal years ended september 26, 2014 , september 27, 2013 and september 28, 2012 , we recorded a cumulative translation loss of $28 million, a gain of $3 million and a gain of $48 million, respectively, through accumulated other comprehensive loss related to these loans. interest rate exposures we manage interest rate risk typically by using, from time to time, interest rate swap transactions with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties, which are designated as fair value hedges for accounting purposes. these swap transactions typically convert interest rates of fixed-rate debt to variable rates. since september 28, 2012, tifsa has had no outstanding interest rate swaps. accordingly, as of september 26, 2014 and september 27, 2013 , the total gross notional amount of our interest rate swap contracts was nil for both periods. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters. environmental matters we are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. as of september 25, 2015 , we concluded that it was probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $23 million to $72 million . as of september 25, 2015 , tyco concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $33 million , of which $11 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $22 million is included in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet. the majority of the liabilities described above relate to ongoing remediation efforts at a facility in the company's global products segment located in marinette, wisconsin, which the company acquired in 1990 in connection with its acquisition of, among other things, the ansul product line. prior to tyco's acquisition, ansul manufactured arsenic-based agricultural herbicides at the marinette facility, which resulted in significant arsenic contamination of soil and groundwater on the marinette site and in parts of the adjoining menominee river. ansul has been engaged in ongoing remediation efforts at the marinette site since 1990, and in february 2009 entered into an administrative consent order (the "consent order") with the u.s. environmental protection agency to address the presence of arsenic at the marinette site. under this agreement, ansul's principal obligations are to contain the arsenic contamination on the site, pump and treat on-site groundwater, dredge, treat and properly dispose of contaminated sediments in the adjoining river areas, and monitor contamination levels on an ongoing basis. activities completed under the consent order since 2009 include the installation of a subsurface barrier wall around the facility to contain contaminated groundwater, the installation of a groundwater extraction and treatment system and the dredging and offsite disposal of treated river sediment. as of september 25, 2015 , the company concluded that its remaining remediation and monitoring costs related to the marinette facility were in the range of approximately $14 million to $46 million . the company's best estimate within that range is approximately $23 million , of which $9 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $14 million is included in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet. during the years ended september 25, 2015 , september 26, 2014 , and september 27, 2013 , the company recorded charges of nil , nil , and $100 million , respectively, in selling, general and administrative expenses within the consolidated statement of operations. although the company has recorded its best estimate of the costs that it will incur to remediate and monitor the arsenic contamination at the marinette facility, it is possible that technological, regulatory or enforcement developments, the results of 7 table of contents environmental studies or other factors could change the company's expectations with respect to future charges and cash outlays, and such changes could be material to the company's future results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. employees as of september 25, 2015, we employed approximately 57,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 19,000 were employed in the united states and approximately 38,000 were outside the united states. approximately 9,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. available information tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). investors may read and copy any document that tyco files, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, dc 20549. investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec, from which investors can electronically access tyco's sec filings. our internet website is www.tyco.com . we make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, reports filed pursuant to section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the sec. in addition, we have posted the charters for our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee, and nominating and governance committee, as well as our board governance principles and guide to ethical conduct, on our website under the "about" heading. the annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. we will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as technological obsolescence, labor relations, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. risks relating to our businesses general economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain markets that we serve. demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial and residential construction, capital expenditures for expansions and maintenance of industrial facilities, and the amount of discretionary business and consumer spending, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. even if demand for our products is not negatively affected, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. much of the demand for installation of security products and fire detection and suppression solutions is driven by commercial and residential construction and industrial facility expansion and maintenance projects. commercial and residential construction projects are heavily dependent on general economic conditions, localized demand for commercial and residential real estate and availability of credit. commercial and residential real estate markets are prone to significant fluctuations in supply and demand. in addition, most commercial and residential real estate developers rely heavily on project financing in order to initiate and complete projects. declines in real estate values could lead to significant reductions in the availability of project financing, even in markets where demand may otherwise be sufficient to support new construction. these factors could in turn hamper demand for new fire detection and suppression and security installations. levels of industrial capital expenditures for facility expansions and maintenance turn on general economic conditions, economic conditions within specific industries we serve, expectations of future market behavior and available financing. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. 8 table of contents the businesses of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical and petrochemical companies, mining and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. during such economic downturns, customers in these industries historically have tended to delay major capital projects, including greenfield construction, expensive maintenance projects and upgrades. additionally, demand for our products and services may be affected by volatility in energy and commodity prices and fluctuating demand forecasts, as our customers may be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. although our industrial customers tend to be less dependent on project financing than real estate developers, disruptions in financial markets and banking systems could make credit and capital markets difficult for our customers to access, and could raise the cost of new debt for our customers to prohibitive levels. any difficulty in accessing these markets and the increased associated costs can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during periods of favorable end-market conditions. many of our customers outside of the industrial and commercial sectors, including governmental and institutional customers, have experienced budgetary constraints as sources of revenue have been negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions. these budgetary constraints have in the past and may in the future reduce demand for our products and services among governmental and institutional customers. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in the industries we serve. any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face competition in each of our businesses, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products and services. if we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected. we operate in competitive local and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service providers, both locally and on a global basis. our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from alternative service providers around the world. currently, key components of our competitive position are our ability to bring to market industry-leading products and services, to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. these factors require continuous management focus on maintaining our competitive position through technological innovation, cost reduction, productivity improvement and a regular appraisal of our asset portfolio. if we are unable to maintain our position as a market leader, or to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth is dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by evolving industry standards. although many of our largest competitors are also global industrial companies, we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products and services at lower cost than ours, particularly in emerging markets, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate in a cost effective manner. we have found that in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets and to identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets. adapting our businesses to serve more local markets will require us to invest considerable resources in building our distribution channels and engineering and manufacturing capabilities in those markets to ensure that we can address local customer demand. even when we invest in growing our business in local markets, we may not be successful for any number of reasons, including competitive pressure from regional and local businesses that may have superior local capabilities or products that are produced more locally at lower cost. as a result, the failure to effectively adapt our products and services to the needs of local markets could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 table of contents our future growth is dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire, manufacture and bring competitive, and increasingly complex, products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. our ability to develop or acquire new products and services requires the investment of significant resources. these acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis. moreover, as we introduce new products, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in the design of a product or in its application to a specified use, which could result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. even after introduction, new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. as a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance and our brand image could suffer. in addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. as a result, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance, the potential for product defects, product quality issues, or the obsolescence of our products and services could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we rely on our global direct installation channel for a significant portion of our revenue. failure to maintain and grow the installed base resulting from direct channel sales could adversely affect our business. unlike many of our competitors, we rely on a direct sales channel for a substantial portion of our revenue. the direct channel provides for the installation of fire and security solutions, often using products manufactured by our global products segment. this represents a significant distribution channel for our global products segment, creates a large installed base of tyco fire and security solutions, and creates opportunities for longer term service and monitoring revenue. if we are unable to maintain or grow this installation business, whether due to changes in economic conditions, a failure to anticipate changing customer needs, a failure to introduce innovative or technologically advanced solutions, or for any other reason, our installation revenue could decline, which could in turn adversely impact our global product pull through and our ability to grow service and monitoring revenue. we are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. if a customer or third party believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our employees or a security or fire system failure, he or she may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment could be substantial. in particular, because our products and services are intended to protect lives and real and personal property, we may have greater exposure to litigation risks than businesses that provide other products and services. we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our installation, service and monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances, and we typically maintain product liability insurance to mitigate the risk that our products and services fail to operate as expected. however, in the event of litigation, it is possible that contract limitations may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable, that our insurance coverage is not adequate, or that insurance carriers deny coverage of our claims. as a result, such employee acts or omissions or system failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business. our business operates and serves consumers worldwide. there are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: economic volatility and the impact of economic conditions in various regions; the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets, especially our intellectual property rights, through non-u.s. legal systems; possibility of unfavorable circumstances from local country laws, regulations or licensing requirements; fluctuations in revenues, operating margins and other financial measures due to currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency and earnings repatriation; trade protection measures, import or export restrictions, licensing requirements and differing local fire and security codes and standards; increased costs and risks of developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of global operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; issues related to occupational safety and adherence to local labor laws and regulations; 10 table of contents potentially adverse tax developments; longer payment cycles; changes in the general political, social and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation, as well as new or changed restrictions regarding foreign ownership of assets - in particular with respect to security products or services that may be viewed by certain governments as sovereign security interests; the presence of corruption in certain countries; and fluctuations in available municipal funding in those instances where a project is government financed. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. foreign currencies to which we have exposure regularly fluctuate in value relative to the u.s. dollar, which can have the effect of reducing the value of local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of local cash flows and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we routinely enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of the risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other non-metal commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory primarily using the first-in, first-out method. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we may enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing business. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we will continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses, product lines or technologies with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and services offerings. these acquisitions are likely to include businesses in emerging markets, which are often riskier than acquisitions in developed markets. we cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or from our existing businesses; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and 11 table of contents dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. moreover, we may be unable to obtain strategic or operational benefits that are expected from our acquisitions. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. a significant percentage of our future growth is anticipated to come from emerging markets, and if we are unable to expand our operations in emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected. one aspect of our growth strategy is to seek significant growth in emerging markets, including china, india, latin america and the middle east, through both organic investments and through acquisitions. emerging markets generally involve greater financial and operational risks than more mature markets, where legal systems are more developed and familiar to us. in some cases, emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, are more susceptible to corruption, and are locations where it may be more difficult to impose corporate standards and procedures and the extraterritorial laws of the united states. negative or uncertain political climates and military disruptions in developing and emerging markets could also adversely affect us. we cannot guarantee that our growth strategy will be successful. if we are unable to manage the risks inherent in our growth strategy in emerging markets, including civil unrest, international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches and failure to maintain compliance with multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. failure to maintain and upgrade the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable and other information; non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such information; or a violation of the company's privacy and security policies with respect to such information, could adversely affect us. we are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers, stockholders and employees, including video and other customer data obtained in connection with monitoring and analytical services. the legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain such information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. a significant actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, stockholder, employee or our data, whether by third parties or as a result of employee malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against us. in addition, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our operations. increasingly, our products and services make use of wireless technologies and are accessed through the internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services wirelessly or via the internet may affect us and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. failure to maintain, upgrade and consolidate our information and technology networks could adversely affect us. we are continuously upgrading and consolidating our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality, acquiring new systems with new functionality and moving to cloud-based technology solutions. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. 12 table of contents if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. failure to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. our culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular we strive to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified engineers and managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. many of our manufacturing processes, and many of the integrated solutions we offer, are highly technical in nature. our ability to expand or maintain our business depends on our ability to hire, train and retain engineers and other technical professionals with the skills necessary to understand and adapt to the continuously developing needs of our customers. this includes developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where the depth of skilled employees is often limited and competition for resources is intense. our geographic expansion strategy in emerging markets depends on our ability to attract, retain and integrate qualified managers and engineers. if we fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience excessive turnover, we may experience declining sales, manufacturing delays or other inefficiencies, increased recruiting, training and relocation costs and other difficulties, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we may be required to recognize substantial impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets periodically to determine whether they are impaired. disruptions to our business, unfavorable end-market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in material charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. we maintain significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, and we believe these balances are recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected with the annual impairment analysis. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our residential and commercial security businesses may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. if our residential or commercial security customers are dissatisfied with our products or services and switch to competitive products or services, or disconnect for other reasons, our recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services we provide. we amortize the costs of acquired monitoring contracts and related customer relationships based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if customer disconnect rates were to rise significantly, we may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continually evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. in addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and any 13 table of contents divestiture we undertake could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. we employ approximately 57,000 people worldwide. approximately 16% of these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works council. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and works councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works council, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. additionally, a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could materially and adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. stoppages by employees of our customers could also result in reduced demand for our products. a material disruption of our operations, particularly at our monitoring and/or manufacturing facilities, could adversely affect our business. if our operations, particularly at our monitoring facilities and/or manufacturing facilities, were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, sabotage, adverse weather conditions, public health crises, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to effectively respond to alarm signals, fill customer orders and otherwise meet obligations to or demand from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures or purchase alternative material at higher costs to fill customer orders, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. we maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. however, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we may be unable to execute on our strategic priorities. following the spin-offs of our former north american residential and small business security business and flow control businesses in september 2012, we began implementing a multi-year strategy focused on transitioning the company from a holding company to an operating company emphasizing growth through innovation. in connection with this strategic shift, we anticipated certain financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to tyco, including certain productivity and other strategic initiatives intended to reduce complexity, restructure operations and leverage tyco's scale in certain areas such as sourcing. we may not be able to achieve the anticipated results of these actions on the scale that we expected, and the anticipated benefits of the productivity and other strategic initiatives may not be fully realized. we do not own the right to use the adt brand name in the united states and canada. as a result of the 2012 separation, we own the adt brand name in jurisdictions outside of the united states and canada, and the adt corporation owns the brand name in the united states and canada. although we have entered agreements with adt designed to protect the value of the adt brand, we cannot assure you that actions taken by adt will not negatively impact the value of the brand outside of the united states and canada. these factors expose us to the risk that the adt brand name could suffer reputational damage or devaluation for reasons outside of our control, including adt's business conduct in the united states and canada. any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the normal course of our business, we are subject to claims and lawsuits, including from time to time claims for damages related to product liability and warranties, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, and litigation related to employee matters, wages and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. furthermore, we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. 14 table of contents the defense of these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of our management's attention. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies or suffer from adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us, such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, and our insurance carriers may deny coverage for claims made by us. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our businesses operate in regulated industries and are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. our operations and employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local licensing laws, fire and security codes and standards and other laws and regulations. in certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. the loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, our systems generally must meet fire and building codes in order to be installed, and it is possible that our current or future products will fail to meet such codes, which could require us to make costly modifications to our products or to forgo marketing in certain jurisdictions. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations were to change or if we or our products failed to comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various non u.s. governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, and laws regulating the foreign ownership of assets. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our 15 table of contents employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. we may fail to satisfy international trade compliance regulations, which could adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we and certain of our subsidiaries, including grinnell llc ( grinnell ), along with numerous other third parties, are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos containing materials. substantially all of the cases pending against affiliates of the company have been filed against grinnell, and have typically involved product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were used with asbestos containing components. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, the company performed a revised valuation of its asbestos-related liabilities and corresponding insurance assets and recorded a net charge of $240 million. although the company's methodology established a range of estimates of reasonably possible outcomes, the company recorded its best estimate within such range based upon information known at the time. as of september 25, 2015, the company's estimated gross asbestos liability of $515 million was recorded within the company's consolidated balance sheet as a liability for pending and future claims and related defense costs, and separately as an asset for insurance recoveries of $487 million . the amounts recorded by the company for asbestos-related liabilities and insurance-related assets are based on the company's strategies for resolving its asbestos claims, currently available information, and a number of estimates and assumptions. key variables and assumptions include the number and type of new claims that are filed each year, the average cost of resolution of claims, the identity of defendants, the resolution of coverage issues with insurance carriers, amount of insurance, and the solvency risk with respect to the company's insurance carriers. many of these factors are closely linked, such that a change in one variable or assumption will impact one or more of the others, and no single variable or assumption predominately influences the determination of the company's asbestos-related liabilities and insurance-related assets. furthermore, predictions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty in the later portion of the projection period. other factors that may affect the company's liability and cash payments for asbestos-related matters include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms of state or federal tort legislation and the applicability of insurance policies among subsidiaries. as a result, actual liabilities or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in the company's calculations vary significantly from actual results. if actual liabilities are significantly higher than those recorded, the cost of resolving such liabilities claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from other environmental agencies that conditions at several sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations by us or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, oil, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and structure decontamination and demolition, including asbestos abatement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. 16 table of contents certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. we depend on third-party licenses for our products and services. we rely on certain software technology that we license from third parties and use in our products and services to perform key functions and provide critical functionality, particularly in our commercial security business. because our products and services incorporate software developed and maintained by third parties we are, to a certain extent, dependent upon such third parties' ability to maintain or enhance their current products and services, to ensure that their products are free of defects or security vulnerabilities, to develop new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. further, these third-party technology licenses may not always be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if our agreements with third-party vendors are not renewed or the third-party software fails to address the needs of our software products and services, we would be required to find alternative software products and services or technologies of equal performance or functionality. we cannot assure that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software if we lose the license to this software, it becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products and services or is otherwise not adequately maintained or updated. furthermore, even if we obtain licenses to alternative software products or services that provide the functionality we need, we may be required to replace hardware installed at our monitoring centers and at our customers' sites, including security system control panels and peripherals, in order to effect our integration of or migration to alternative software products. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. infringement or expiration of our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties, could negatively affect us. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology, trade secrets or know-how. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our trade secrets, know-how, business strategy and other proprietary information, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. finally, for those products in our portfolio that rely on patent protection, once a patent has expired, the product is generally open to competition. products under patent protection usually generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected by patents. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we are, from time to time, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, including practicing entities and non-practicing entities. regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming, and the litigation process is subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. intellectual property lawsuits or claims may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 table of contents police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies. police departments in a limited number of jurisdictions do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance. we have offered affected customers the option of receiving responses from private guard companies, in most cases through contracts with us, which increases the overall cost to customers. if more police departments, whether inside or outside the u.s., were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies, our ability to attract and retain customers could be negatively impacted and our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. the company may be subject to risks arising from regulations applicable to companies doing business with the united states government. the company's customers include many u.s. federal, state and local government authorities. doing business with the united states government and state and local authorities subjects the company to unusual risks, including dependence on the level of government spending and compliance with and changes in governmental procurement and security regulations. agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification, either at the convenience of the government or for the company's failure to perform under the applicable contract. the company is subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement and security regulations, which can be expensive and burdensome. if the company were charged with wrongdoing as a result of an investigation, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. risks related to our liquidity and financial markets disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, by increasing our funding costs or reducing the availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of ordinary shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our revolving bank credit agreement contains customary financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. in addition, the indentures governing our bonds contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale-leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facility or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. 18 table of contents material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our credit facility will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences on our financial results and liquidity. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate purposes, including dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health, and may decrease our profitability. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital stock, the terms of the debt or capital stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our ordinary stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in us would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us. risks relating to tax matters examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the irs, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. tyco's and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the 2007 separation. we previously disclosed that in connection with u.s. federal tax audits, the irs has raised a number of issues and proposed tax adjustments for periods beginning with the 1997 tax year. in particular, we have been unable to resolve with the irs matters related to the treatment of certain intercompany debt transactions in existence prior to the 2007 separation. as a result, on june 20, 2013, we received notices of deficiency from the irs asserting that several of our former u.s. subsidiaries owe additional taxes of $883.3 million plus penalties of $154 million based on audits of the 1997 through 2000 tax years of tyco and its subsidiaries as they existed at that time. in addition, we received final partnership administrative adjustments for certain u.s. partnerships owned by former u.s. subsidiaries with respect to which an additional tax deficiency of approximately $30 million was asserted. these amounts exclude interest and do not reflect the impact on subsequent periods if the irs position described below is ultimately proved correct. in addition, the adjustments proposed by the irs are subject to the sharing provisions of a tax sharing agreement entered in 2007 with medtronic (formerly covidien plc) and te connectivity (the "2007 tax sharing agreement") under which tyco, medtronic and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of shared income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, medtronic's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns. if any party to the 2007 tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the 2007 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, medtronic's and te connectivity's tax liabilities. 19 table of contents the irs asserted in the notices of deficiency that substantially all of tyco's intercompany debt originated during the 1997 - 2000 period should not be treated as debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and disallowed interest and related deductions recognized on u.s. income tax returns totaling approximately $2.9 billion. we strongly disagree with the irs position and have filed petitions with the u.s. tax court contesting the irs proposed adjustments. a trial date has been set for october 2016. we believe that we have meritorious defenses for our tax filings, that the irs positions with regard to these matters is inconsistent with the applicable tax laws and existing treasury regulations, and that the previously reported taxes for the years in question are appropriate. furthermore, we believe that tyco's income tax reserves and the liabilities recorded within the consolidated balance sheet for the tax sharing arrangements are appropriate. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters, and the impact of that resolution, are uncertain and could have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in particular, if the irs is successful in asserting its claim, it would have an adverse impact on interest deductions related to the same intercompany debt in subsequent time periods, totaling approximately $6.6 billion, which is expected to be disallowed by the irs. we share responsibility for certain of our, pentair's and adt's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including september 28, 2012. in connection with the 2012 separation, we entered into the 2012 tax sharing agreement with pentair and adt that is separate from the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which governs the rights and obligations of tyco, adt and pentair for certain tax liabilities before the distributions, including tyco's obligations under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. under the 2012 tax sharing agreement tyco, pentair and adt share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to adt's u.s., tyco flow control's and tyco's income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by tyco with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement, excluding approximately $175 million of pre-2012 separation related tax liabilities that were anticipated to be paid prior to the 2012 separation (collectively, "shared tax liabilities"). tyco will be responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. pentair and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. tyco, pentair and adt will share 52.5% 20% and 27.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20%, 27.5%, and 52.5% by pentair, adt and tyco, respectively. as of september 28, 2012, tyco established liabilities representing the fair market value of its obligations under the 2012 tax sharing arrangement which was recorded in other liabilities within the company's consolidated balance sheet with an offset to tyco shareholders' equity. in addition, we entered into a non-income tax sharing agreement with adt in connection with the adt distribution. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under these agreements, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that, if any party were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of certain taxes that may arise as a result of the failure of the distributions to be tax free (such taxes, as defined in the 2012 tax sharing agreement, "distribution taxes"), each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, pentair's and adt's tax liabilities. if the distributions or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or both adt and pentair could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco has received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distributions to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distributions will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and/or 361 of the code, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of adt common stock or of pentair common shares. the private letter ruling also provides that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter ruling, tyco has received an opinion from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distributions for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the private letter ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, pentair and adt regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distributions or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership (which might take into account changes in pentair stock ownership resulting from the merger) or asset ownership after the distributions. an opinion of counsel 20 table of contents represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinions will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distributions ultimately are determined to be taxable, the distributions could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to you for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and you could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, we would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the pentair common shares and the shares of adt common stock distributed to our shareholders on the distribution date over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we, pentair or adt could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions are taxable. in addition, under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distributions or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distributions by us, pentair or adt, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, pentair or adt as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distributions by us, pentair or adt, then we, pentair and adt will share the liability in the manner and according to the sharing percentages set forth in the 2012 tax sharing agreement. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislative action in the united states could materially and adversely affect us. tax-related legislation legislative action may be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could limit the availability of tax benefits or deductions that we currently claim, override tax treaties upon which we rely, or otherwise affect the taxes that the united states imposes on our worldwide operations. such changes could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and/or require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. in addition, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding or limiting our ability, as an irish company, to take advantage of tax treaties with the united states, we could incur additional tax expense and/or otherwise incur business detriment. legislation relating to governmental contracts various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad may affect us. we are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states currently does not have a treaty with ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in ireland. as an irish company, tyco is governed by the irish companies acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an irish company generally are owed to the company only. shareholders of irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. accordingly, holders of tyco international plc securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. 21 table of contents our effective tax rate may increase. there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, including the potential legislative actions described in these risk factors, which if enacted could result in an increase in our effective tax rate. additionally, the tax laws of ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material increase in our effective tax rate. transfers of tyco ordinary shares may be subject to irish stamp duty. for the majority of transfers of tyco ordinary shares, there is no irish stamp duty. however, irish stamp duty is payable in respect of certain share transfers. a transfer of tyco ordinary shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially (i.e. through the depository trust company ("dtc")) to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially is not subject to irish stamp duty (unless the transfer involves a change in the nominee that is the record holder of the transferred shares). a transfer of tyco ordinary shares by a seller who holds shares directly (i.e. not through dtc) to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. a shareholder who directly holds shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account to be held through dtc without giving rise to irish stamp duty provided that the shareholder has confirmed to tyco transfer agent that there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and, at the time of the transfer, there is no agreement in place for a sale of the shares. we currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. in other cases tyco may, in its absolute discretion, pay or cause one of its affiliates to pay any stamp duty. tyco memorandum and articles of association provide that, in the event of any such payment, tyco (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) may have a lien against the tyco ordinary shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in tyco ordinary shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by tyco. dividends you receive may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain circumstances, as an irish tax resident company, we may be required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. whether tyco is required to deduct irish dividend withholding tax from dividends paid to a shareholder depends largely on whether that shareholder is resident for tax purposes in a relevant territory. a list of the relevant territories is included as annex c to the proxy statement/prospectus related to the re-domicile to ireland. dividends received by you could be subject to irish income tax. dividends paid in respect of tyco ordinary shares generally are not subject to irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in tyco. tyco shareholders who receive their dividends subject to irish dividend withholding tax generally will have no further liability to irish income tax on the dividend unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with ireland other than his or her shareholding in tyco. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures to which we believe we are subject. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign currency options, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and forward commodity contracts. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having strong investment grade long-term credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's and moody's. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. 53 table of contents foreign currency exposures we hedge a portion of our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates related to operating entities through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts. additionally, for our corporate financing entities we manage the foreign currency exposure through a combination of multi-currency notional pool and forward contracts. as of september 25, 2015 and september 26, 2014 , the total gross notional amount of our foreign exchange contracts was $365 million and $258 million , respectively. the fair value of these derivative financial instruments and impact of such changes in the fair value was not material to the consolidated balance sheets as of september 25, 2015 and september 26, 2014 or consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended september 25, 2015 and september 26, 2014 . our largest exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with the british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign currency exchange contract is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 25, 2015 . a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $3 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $3 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. during the quarter ended march 27, 2015, we designated our 2025 euro notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency and intercompany permanent loans. the hedge is intended to reduce, but will not eliminate, the impact on our financial results of changes in the exchange rate between the euro and the u.s. dollar. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. the currency risk related to the net investment hedge is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market exchange rates in effect on september 25, 2015 . a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $51 million net increase in other comprehensive income. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $62 million net decrease in other comprehensive income. however, these increases and decreases in other comprehensive income would be offset by decreases or increases in the hedged net investments on our balance sheet due to currency translation. as of september 25, 2015 and september 26, 2014 , respectively, $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion of intercompany loans have been designated as permanent in nature. for the fiscal years ended september 25, 2015 , september 26, 2014 and september 27, 2013 , we recorded a cumulative translation loss of $161 million , loss of $28 million and gain of $3 million , respectively, through accumulated other comprehensive loss related to these loans. interest rate exposures we manage interest rate risk typically by using, from time to time, interest rate swap transactions with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties, which are designated as fair value hedges for accounting purposes. these swap transactions typically convert interest rates of fixed-rate debt to variable rates. since september 28, 2012, tifsa has had no outstanding interest rate swaps. accordingly, as of september 25, 2015 and september 26, 2014 , the total gross notional amount of our interest rate swap contracts was nil for both periods. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64risk factors 7 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57risk factors 7 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47risk factors 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations which appears on pages 134 to 179 of this form 10-k/a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, which appears on pages 126 to 172 of this form 10-k. 28quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2004, 2003 and 2002 were 47.4%, 45.0% and 41.8%, respectively, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar-reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of steel and resin in the united states. we are also a large buyer of other commodities, including copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 64 we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of business, we are subject to a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. in addition, our healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the u.s. food and drug administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. our adt business has generally experienced higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our global electronic security services business were 15.1%, 15.9% and 13.2% on a trailing 12-month basis as of september 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. if attrition rates show an upward trend, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program using a double-declining balance method based on a ten-year life for the first eight years of the estimated life of the customer relationships, converting to the straight-line method of amortization to completely amortize the asset pool by the end of the twelfth year. internally generated residential and commercial account pools are amortized using a straight-line method over ten to fourteen years. if the attrition rates were to rise for these account pools, then tyco may be required to accelerate the amortization of the costs related to these pools, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by reckless or corrupt behavior by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. tyco and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, asia, latin america and eastern europe. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or 65 criminal acts committed by our employees that would violate the u.s. and/or foreign laws governing payments to government officials. these actions could result in criminal or civil penalties, including substantial monetary fines, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. an allegation was brought to our attention that during the period from 1999 through 2003 certain improper payments were made by a non-u.s. subsidiary of tyco with 2004 revenue of $40 million. with the assistance of outside counsel, we conducted an internal investigation into these allegations and whether certain payments were correctly recorded in the books and records of the subsidiary. we have taken remedial steps and have reported the results of our investigation to the department of justice and the sec and are cooperating with their inquiry. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and minimum levels of net worth, and other covenants that limit our ability to pledge assets and to make substantial payments in connection with our capital shares. we have synthetic lease facilities with other covenants, including interest coverage and leverage ratios. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. certain downgrades by moody's and s&amp;p would permit the providers of our receivables facilities, to the extent that our receivables facilities are utilized, to cease further purchases under the facilities and would increase the interest cost of our credit facility borrowings. downgrades may also increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. 66 in 2003, the state of california adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain bermuda and other foreign-chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. to date tyco companies have requested waivers which have been granted or are still pending with only one request having been denied. however, there is no reliable process for how that waiver authority will be exercised and how the provision for such waivers will affect tyco's business. in addition, the u.s. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. we are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. tyco's revenues related to direct sales to the u.s. federal government and the state of california accounted for less than 2.0% and 0.1%, respectively, of our total net revenues for 2004. we are unable to predict, however, whether the final form of the proposed legislation discussed above would also affect tyco's indirect sales to the u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of tyco's non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact on us of any proposed legislation in this area and can provide no assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse. tax legislation the u.s. congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. recently, the u.s. congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we expect various tax proposals to be introduced in the u.s. congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have adverse effects on tyco if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any 67 u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission, or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, product expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures or other matters, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions; the demand for tyco's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which tyco competes; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigation and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management; the ratings on our debt and our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including foreign currency rate fluctuations; 68 fluctuations in the prices of commodities, including steel and resin; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and six sigma initiatives; potential further impairment of our goodwill; the impact of fluctuations in the share price of tyco common shares; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. government regulations in general, and in particular changes in rules and regulations regarding the safety, efficacy, sales, promotions, insurance reimbursement and pricing of tyco's disposable medical products and other specialty products, and regarding tyco's ability to operate and set prices with respect to its undersea cable communications systems; the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the u.s. that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco's incorporation in bermuda or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its incorporation in bermuda; and the potential distraction costs associated with negative publicity relating to actions of our former senior corporate management. 69 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in order to manage the volatility relating to our more significant market risks, we enter into forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency swaps, foreign currency options, and interest rate swaps. we do not anticipate any material changes in our primary market risk exposures in 2005. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross-border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows, are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. interest rate sensitivity the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including debt obligations and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of principal repayment and weighted-average interest rates. for interest rate and cross-currency swaps, the table presents notional amounts at the current market price rate and weighted average interest rates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. the amounts included in the table below are in u.s. dollars, unless noted ($ in millions): 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fair value total debt: fixed rate (us$) 1,428 1,990 5 2,590 802 6,543 13,358 15,864 average interest rate 6.1 % 6.0 % 6.4 % 2.9 % 6.1 % 5.8 % fixed rate (euro) 624 6 742 2 833 2 2,209 2,323 average interest rate 4.4 % 3.7 % 6.1 % 7.5 % 5.5 % 8.1 % fixed rate (yen) 1 1 54 56 56 average interest rate 2.9 % 2.1 % 5.0 % fixed rate (british pound) 883 883 923 average interest rate 6.4 % fixed rate (other) 11 9 5 2 27 27 average interest rate 6.3 % 6.1 % 6.8 % 6.4 % variable rate (us$) 8 9 1 1 1 89 109 109 average interest rate (1) 2.7 % 3.0 % 4.2 % 3.4 % 3.7 % 8.0 % variable rate (euro) 26 11 11 13 12 73 73 average interest rate (1) 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.6 % 3.7 % 3.7 % variable rate (other) 18 18 18 average interest rate (1) 11.4 % cross currency swap: fixed to variable (british pound) 359 359 71 average pay rate (1) 3.5 % average receive rate 6.5 % interest rate swaps: fixed to variable (us$) 2,750 2,750 55 average pay rate (1) 3.6 % average receive rate 6.3 % fixed to variable (british pound) 359 359 (2 ) average pay rate (1) 3.5 % average receive rate 6.5 % (1) weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates at september 30, 2004 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial instruments. exchange rate sensitivity the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. these instruments include debt obligations and forward foreign currency exchange 70 contracts. for debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of principal repayment and weighted-average interest rates. for forward foreign currency exchange contracts, the table presents notional amounts and weighted-average contractual exchange rates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. the amounts included in the table below are in u.s. dollars, unless noted ($ in millions): 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed rate (euro) 624 6 742 2 833 2 2,209 2,323 average interest rate 4.4 % 3.7 % 6.1 % 7.5 % 5.5 % 8.1 % fixed rate (yen) 1 1 54 56 56 average interest rate 2.9 % 2.1 % 5.0 % fixed rate (british pound) 883 883 923 average interest rate 6.4 % fixed rate (other) 11 9 5 2 27 27 average interest rate 6.3 % 6.1 % 6.8 % 6.4 % variable rate (euro) 26 11 11 13 12 73 73 average interest rate (1) 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.6 % 3.7 % 3.7 % variable rate (other) 18 18 18 average interest rate (1) 11.4 % forward contracts: pay us$/receive australian dollar 154 154 2 average contractual exchange rate 0.71 pay us$/receive canadian dollar 160 160 7 average contractual exchange rate 1.33 pay us$/receive swiss franc 131 131 (2 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.24 pay czech republic koruna/receive us$ 18 18 average contractual exchange rate 25.78 pay us$/receive danish krona 14 14 average contractual exchange rate 6.05 pay euro/receive british pound 31 31 average contractual exchange rate 0.69 pay us$/receive euro 1,395 1,395 3 average contractual exchange rate 1.23 pay us$/receive british pound 161 161 1 average contractual exchange rate 1.79 pay us$/receive hong kong dollar 124 124 average contractual exchange rate 7.78 pay us$/receive hungary forint 12 12 average contractual exchange rate 204.18 pay yen/receive euro 49 49 2 average contractual exchange rate 131.06 pay us$/receive yen 487 487 (9 ) average contractual exchange rate 108.91 pay us$/receive mexican peso 83 83 1 average contractual exchange rate 11.63 pay us$/receive norwegian krone 9 9 average contractual exchange rate 6.82 pay us$/receive new zealand dollar 49 49 1 average contractual exchange rate 0.65 pay polish zloty/receive euro 5 5 average contractual exchange rate 4.61 pay us$/receive swedish krona 27 27 1 average contractual exchange rate 7.57 pay us$/receive singapore dollar 222 222 average contractual exchange rate 1.69 pay us$/receive taiwan dollar 10 10 average contractual exchange rate 33.81 pay south african rand/receive euro 5 5 average contractual exchange rate 8.00 (1) weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates at september 30, 2004 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial instruments. 71 in addition to the forward foreign currency exchange contracts presented in the table above, the company held forward contracts in 14 different currency pairs, with individual notional amounts of less than $5 million and an aggregate notional amount of $25 million and less than $1 million in fair value. these contracts primarily related to exposures against the euro. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 12 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. risks relating to actions of tyco's former senior corporate management pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco, some members of our former senior corporate management, current and former members of our board of directors and our current chief executive officer, special advisor to the chairman and chief executive officer and current general counsel are named defendants in a number of purported class actions alleging violations of certain disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. tyco, certain of our current and former employees, some members of our former senior corporate management and some former members of the board of directors of tyco international (us), inc. also are named as defendants in several erisa class actions. in addition, tyco and some members of our former senior corporate management are subject to an sec inquiry, and some members of our former senior corporate management are named as defendants in criminal cases prosecuted by the district attorney of new york county. the findings and outcomes of the prosecutions and the sec civil action may affect the course of the purported securities class actions and erisa class actions pending against tyco. we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. continued scrutiny resulting from ongoing governmental investigations may have an adverse effect on our business. we and others have received subpoenas and requests from the sec's division of enforcement, the district attorney of new york county, the united states department of labor and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. certain current and former employees in fire and security received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices regarding the adt dealer connect fees. as previously reported in our periodic filings, these practices have been discontinued. the department of labor is investigating tyco and the administrators of certain of our benefit plans. at this time, we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government instrumentalities (which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot provide assurance that the effects and results of these or other investigations will not be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the irs, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. tyco's and our subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. tyco is currently under audit by the internal revenue service ("irs") for the years 1997 through 2000. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax deficiencies. we are reviewing the issues raised by the tax authorities and are contesting certain of the proposed tax deficiencies. amounts related to these tax deficiencies and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been accrued through the income tax provision, equity or adjustments to goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. in connection with the irs audits for the years 1997 through 2000, the company prepared proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns. the proposed amendments are currently being reviewed by the irs and if accepted will result in receipt of refunds or credits and a corresponding reduction to our net deferred tax assets and liabilities. the company is in the process of preparing proposed amendments to prior period u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods. the proposed amendments are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ongoing sec inquiries may require us to further amend or restate our public disclosures. we are subject to inquiries by the sec's division of enforcement. we cannot provide assurance that the resolution of the division of enforcement's inquiries will not necessitate further amendments or restatements to our previously-filed periodic reports or lead to some enforcement proceedings against tyco. the sec's division of enforcement has not completed its review of prior management's actions and our accounting, including the matters covered by the company's current report on form 8-k filed on december 30, 2002. during 2005, the company recorded a charge of $50 million, which represents the company's best estimate of the amount in fines and penalties management believes the company will likely pay to resolve the matters raised in the sec's investigation. the company is engaged in discussions with the sec's division of enforcement to resolve the matters raised in the sec's investigation. final resolution of these matters is subject to a number of uncertainties, including finalizing the terms of a settlement that the enforcement staff will agree to recommend to the commission, the company's submission of an offer of settlement approved by the tyco board of directors, and the commission's approval of the settlement offer. until such events have occurred, the charge is subject to change. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash and our cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. in making this estimate, we have not assumed the need to make any material payments in connection with our pending litigation or investigations. any material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional 13 funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. additional negative publicity may adversely affect our business. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco was the subject of continuing negative publicity focusing on these actions. this negative publicity contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities in 2002 and brought increased regulatory scrutiny upon us. additional negative publicity related to former senior corporate management's actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and the market price of our publicly traded securities. our senior corporate management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from actions of prior management. we replaced our senior corporate executives with a new team during 2002 through 2004, and all of the former members of our board of directors determined not to stand for reelection in march 2003. a new board of directors was elected at our annual general meeting of shareholders in march 2003. we cannot provide assurance that this major restructuring of our board of directors and senior management team, and the accompanying distractions related to matters arising from the actions of prior management will not adversely affect our results of operations. risks relating to our businesses cyclical industry and economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our operating results in some of our segments are affected adversely by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which they operate. for example, demand for the products and services of fire and security and engineered products and services is significantly affected by levels of commercial construction and consumer and business discretionary spending. also, the electronic components business within electronics is heavily dependent on the end markets it serves and therefore can be affected by the demand patterns of these markets, which could impact the margins in this business. this cyclical impact can be amplified because some of our businesses purchase products from other of our businesses. for example, fire and security purchases certain products sold by engineered products and services. therefore, a drop in demand for our fire prevention products due to lower new 14 residential or office construction or other factors can cause a drop in demand for certain of our products sold by engineered products and services. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. there can be no assurances that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: radioactive materials decontamination and decommissioning; solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs (including asset retirement obligations) of approximately $284 million, of which $34 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $250 million is included in other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. 15 we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. pursuant to gaap, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. future impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. in addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholders' equity, increasing our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio. such reduction in consolidated net worth and increase in debt as a percentage of total capitalization could result in a default under our credit facilities. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see part ii item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2005 was 50.6% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of steel and resin in the united states. we are also a large buyer of other commodities, including copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are named as a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. in addition, our healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 our healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the united states food and drug administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead, and have led, to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. our adt business has generally experienced higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our global electronic security services business were 14.8%, 15.1% and 15.9% on a trailing 12-month basis as of september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. although the attrition rate has been declining, if attrition rates were to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial account pools are similarly amortized. if the attrition rates were to rise tyco may be required to accelerate the amortization of the costs which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. tyco and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, asia, latin america and europe. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials. these improper actions, however, could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. from time to time tyco receives information alleging improper conduct of tyco employees, agents, and/or distributors, including conduct involving potentially improper payments to foreign government officials. tyco's policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, taking remedial control measures and reporting its findings to relevant law enforcement authorities. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of liens. we have synthetic lease facilities with other covenants, including interest coverage and leverage ratios. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. 17 although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. certain downgrades by moody's and s&amp;p may increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. in 2003, the state of california adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain bermuda and other foreign-chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. to date tyco companies have requested waivers which have been granted or are still pending, with certain requests having been denied. however, there is no reliable process for how that waiver authority will be exercised and how the provision for such waivers will affect tyco's business. in addition, the u.s. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. we are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. tyco's revenue related to direct sales to the u.s. federal government and the state of california accounted for less than 2.0% and 0.1%, respectively, of our total net revenue for 2005 and we expect those levels to continue. we are unable to predict, however, whether the final form of the proposed legislation discussed above would also affect tyco's indirect sales to the u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of tyco's non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact on us of any proposed legislation in this area and can provide no assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse. 18 tax legislation the united states congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. in october 2004, the united states congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. legislation passed by the u.s. senate on november 18, 2005 would modify parts of the american jobs creation act of 2004, but would not retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we expect various tax proposals to be introduced in the united states congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have adverse effects on tyco if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2005 was 50.6% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of steel and resin in the united states. we are also a large buyer of other commodities, including copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are named as a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. in addition, our healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 our healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the united states food and drug administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead, and have led, to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. our adt business has generally experienced higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our global electronic security services business were 14.8%, 15.1% and 15.9% on a trailing 12-month basis as of september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. although the attrition rate has been declining, if attrition rates were to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial account pools are similarly amortized. if the attrition rates were to rise tyco may be required to accelerate the amortization of the costs which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. tyco and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, asia, latin america and europe. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials. these improper actions, however, could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. from time to time tyco receives information alleging improper conduct of tyco employees, agents, and/or distributors, including conduct involving potentially improper payments to foreign government officials. tyco's policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, taking remedial control measures and reporting its findings to relevant law enforcement authorities. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of liens. we have synthetic lease facilities with other covenants, including interest coverage and leverage ratios. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. 17 although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. certain downgrades by moody's and s&amp;p may increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. in 2003, the state of california adopted legislation intended to limit the eligibility of certain bermuda and other foreign-chartered companies to participate in certain state contracts. to date tyco companies have requested waivers which have been granted or are still pending, with certain requests having been denied. however, there is no reliable process for how that waiver authority will be exercised and how the provision for such waivers will affect tyco's business. in addition, the u.s. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. we are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. tyco's revenue related to direct sales to the u.s. federal government and the state of california accounted for less than 2.0% and 0.1%, respectively, of our total net revenue for 2005 and we expect those levels to continue. we are unable to predict, however, whether the final form of the proposed legislation discussed above would also affect tyco's indirect sales to the u.s. federal or state governments or the willingness of tyco's non-governmental customers to do business with us. as a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact on us of any proposed legislation in this area and can provide no assurance that the impact will not be materially adverse. 18 tax legislation the united states congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. in october 2004, the united states congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. legislation passed by the u.s. senate on november 18, 2005 would modify parts of the american jobs creation act of 2004, but would not retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we expect various tax proposals to be introduced in the united states congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have adverse effects on tyco if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. 19 item 2. properties our operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world aggregating approximately 103 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately 54 million square feet are owned and approximately 49 million square feet are leased. these facilities house manufacturing, distribution and warehousing operations, as well as sales and marketing, engineering and administrative offices. fire and security operates through a network of offices located in north america, central america, south america, europe, the middle east, the asia-pacific region and south africa. our fire and security manufacturing facilities are located in north america, the united kingdom, germany, australia, new zealand, south korea and japan. the group occupies approximately 19 million square feet, of which 4 million square feet are owned and 15 million square feet are leased. electronics has manufacturing facilities in north america, central and south america, europe, asia and australia. the group occupies approximately 32 million square feet, of which 20 million square feet are owned and 12 million square feet are leased. healthcare has manufacturing facilities in north america, europe, the middle east and asia. the group occupies approximately 22 million square feet, of which 13 million square feet are owned and 9 million square feet are leased. engineered products and services has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, europe, the asia-pacific region and central and south america. the group occupies approximately 30 million square feet, of which 17 million square feet are owned and 13 million square feet are leased. in the opinion of management, our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. we do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. see note 17 to consolidated financial statements for a description of our lease obligations. item 3. legal proceedings securities class actions as previously reported in our 2004 form 10-k, tyco and certain of our former directors and officers have been named as defendants in over 40 securities class actions. most of the securities class actions have now been transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings. on january 28, 2003, a consolidated securities class action complaint was filed in these proceedings. on january 7, 2005, the company answered the plaintiffs' consolidated complaint. on january 14, 2005, lead plaintiffs made a motion for class certification, which the company opposed on july 22, 2005. that motion is still pending. on july 5, 2005, the company moved for revision of the court's october 14, 2004 order in light of a change in law, insofar as the order denied the company's motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint for failure to plead loss causation. on december 2, 2005, the court denied the company's motion. as previously reported in our periodic filings, a class action complaint, ezra charitable trust v. tyco international ltd. , was filed in the united states district court for the southern district of florida on may 28, 2003. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. thereafter, the company moved to dismiss the complaint. on december 22, 2004, plaintiff moved to amend the complaint. the proposed amendment asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder against tyco international ltd. and edward breen, our current chief executive officer, and seeks to add as defendants david fitzpatrick, our former chief financial 20 officer, and pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our former independent auditors. as against defendants breen and fitzpatrick, the complaint asserts a cause of action under section 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934. on march 25, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire granted plaintiff's motion to amend. plaintiff filed an amended complaint that day. on march 28, 2005, the court denied defendants' motion to dismiss the original complaint, without prejudice to the defendants' ability to move against the amended complaint. on april 25, 2005, defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated amended class action complaint. on september 2, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire entered a memorandum and order dismissing the amended complaint. on october 18, 2005, plaintiff filed a notice to appeal in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. as previously reported in our periodic filings, an action entitled hess v. tyco international ltd., et al., was filed on june 3, 2004 in the superior court of the state of california for the county of los angeles against certain of our former directors and officers, our former auditors and tyco. on september 27, 2004, the company entered into a stipulation with the plaintiffs staying the litigation during the pendency of plaintiffs' national association of securities dealers, inc. arbitration to which tyco is not a party. that action remains stayed. as previously reported in our periodic filings, the united states district court for the district of new jersey granted one plaintiff's motion for appointment as lead plaintiff in stumpf v. tyco international ltd., an action originally filed on july 28, 2003 and o'loughlin v. tyco international ltd., an action originally filed on september 26, 2003. on december 13, 2004, lead plaintiff mark newby filed a consolidated securities class action complaint purporting to represent a class of purchasers of tycom securities between july 26, 2000 and december 17, 2001. plaintiff names as defendants tyco international ltd., tycom, ltd., goldman sachs &amp; co., merrill lynch, pierce, fenner &amp; smith, incorporated and citigroup inc., along with certain former tyco and tycom executives. the complaint asserts causes of action under sections 11 and 15 of the securities act of 1933 and under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder against tyco, tycom, goldman sachs, merrill lynch, citigroup and certain former tyco and tycom executives. the complaint alleges the tycom registration statement and prospectus relating to the sale of tycom securities were inaccurate, misleading and failed to disclose facts necessary to make the registration statement and prospectus not misleading. further, the complaint alleges the defendants violated securities laws by making materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, executive compensation, tyco's and tycom's finances and tycom's business prospects. on february 18, 2005, the company moved to dismiss the consolidated securities class action complaint. on september 2, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire granted in part and denied in part the company's motion to dismiss. the court granted the company's motion to dismiss allegations that the tycom registration statement and prospectus were misleading to the extent that they failed to disclose alleged looting of tyco by former senior executives, accounting fraud, analyst conflicts and the participation by james brennan in the offering, because plaintiffs failed to plead that those alleged omissions were disclosed during the class period, with a resultant drop in the value of tycom stock. however, the court denied the company's motion to dismiss with respect to other allegations. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on november 27, 2002 the state of new jersey, on behalf of several state pension funds, filed a complaint, new jersey v. tyco , in the united states district court for the district of new jersey against tyco, our former auditors and certain of our former officers and directors. on february 11, 2005, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint against tyco, our former auditors, and certain of our former directors and officers. as against all defendants, the amended complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, for common law fraud, aiding and abetting common law fraud, conspiracy to commit fraud and negligent misrepresentation. claims are asserted against the 21 individual defendants under section 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, section 15 of the securities act of 1933, section 24(d) of the new jersey uniform securities law, sections 421-b:25(ii) &amp; (iii) of the new hampshire uniform securities law, and for breaches of fiduciary duties. claims are also asserted against certain of the individual defendants under section 20a of the securities exchange act of 1934, and for violation of the new jersey rico statute; against tyco under section 12(a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, section 24(c) of the new jersey uniform securities law, and for violation of, aiding and abetting violation of, and vicarious liability under the new jersey rico statute; against tyco and certain of the individual defendants under section 14(a) of the securities act of 1933 and rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder, and for conspiracy to violate the new jersey rico statute; against tyco, our former auditors, and certain of the individual defendants under section 11 of the securities act of 1933, and for violation of, and conspiracy to violate the new jersey rico statute; and against our former auditors and certain of the individual defendants for aiding and abetting violation of the new jersey rico statute. finally, claims are asserted against the individual defendants and our former auditors for aiding and abetting the individual defendants' breaches of fiduciary duties. the second amended complaint asserts that the defendants violated the securities laws and otherwise engaged in fraudulent acts by making materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, the following: unauthorized and improper compensation of certain of our former executives; their improper use of our funds for personal benefit and their improper self-dealing in real estate. on june 10, 2005, the company moved to dismiss in part the second amended complaint, which motion remains pending before the court. as previously reported in our periodic filings, the company appealed to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit the decision of the united states district court for the district of new hampshire to remand brazen v. tyco international ltd. to the circuit court for cook county, illinois and hromyak v. tyco international ltd., goldfarb v. tyco international ltd., mandel v. tyco international ltd., myers v. tyco international ltd., rappold v. tyco international ltd., and schuldt v. tyco international ltd. to the circuit court for palm beach county, florida. plaintiffs moved to dismiss the company's appeal. on december 29, 2004, the united states court of appeals for the first circuit granted plaintiffs' motion and dismissed the company's appeal. on april 28, 2005, the company moved in the circuit court for palm beach county, florida to stay and to strike the class allegations in goldfarb , mandel , myers , rappold , and schuldt . also on april 28, 2005, the company moved in the circuit court for palm beach county, florida to dismiss hromyak . on july 8, 2005, the circuit court granted in part and denied in part the motion to stay and to strike the class allegations in goldfarb , mandel , myers , rappold , and schuldt . on august 23, 2005, the circuit court granted tyco's motion to dismiss hromyak . the hromyak plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal on september 20, 2005. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on march 10, 2005, plaintiff lionel i. brazen filed an amended class action complaint in the circuit court for cook county, illinois purporting to represent a class of purchasers who exchanged shares of mallinckrodt, inc. common stock for shares of tyco common stock pursuant to the joint proxy statement and prospectus, and the registration statement in which it was included, in connection with the october 17, 2000 merger of tyco and mallinckrodt, inc. plaintiff names as defendants tyco international ltd., and certain former tyco executives and asserts causes of action under section 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the securities act of 1933. the amended class action complaint alleges that the defendants made statements in the registration statement and the joint proxy statement and prospectus that were materially false and misleading and failed to disclose material adverse facts regarding the business and operations of tyco. on april 21, 2005, the company moved in the circuit court for cook county, illinois to dismiss or stay or, in the alternative, to strike the class allegations. on july 22, 2005, the court denied the company's motion. also, on july 22, 2005, the court granted the motion to dismiss individual defendants michael a. ashcroft, joshua m. berman, richard s. bodman, john f. fort, iii, stephen w. foss, james s. pasman jr., w. peter slusser and frank e. walsh, jr. on august 2, 2005, tyco filed a motion for a finding pursuant to supreme court rule 308(a), which was denied on august 16, 2005. on august 19, 2005, 22 tyco filed an interlocutory appeal of the circuit court for cook county illinois' july 22, 2005 memorandum and order. that interlocutory appeal has been briefed and is still pending. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on april 29, 2005, an action was filed against tyco in the united states district court for the southern district of florida, stevenson v. tyco international ltd., et. al. plaintiff names as additional defendants our current chief executive officer, edward breen, our former chief financial officer, david fitzpatrick, our current executive vice president and general counsel, william lytton, current members of tyco's board of directors including dennis blair, george buckley, bruce gordon, john krol, carl mccall, mackey mcdonald, brendan o'neill, sandra wijnberg, and jerome york, as well as former members of tyco's board of directors, including michael ashcroft, joshua berman, richard bodman, john fort, steven foss, wendy lane, james pasman, peter slusser and joseph welch. the complaint asserts causes of action under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations that resulted in artificially deflated stock prices. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on july 6, 2005, plaintiff filed his motion and brief to vacate the conditional transfer order. on january 31, 2003 a civil action was filed in the united states district court for the district of new jersey, cirella v. tyco international et al . plaintiff names as defendants tyco international ltd., dennis kozlowski, mark h. swartz and mark a. belnick. plaintiff philip m. cirella alleges that he was a shareholder in cit who received common shares of tyco when it acquired cit in 2000, and later purchased additional tyco shares with marguerite cirella. plaintiffs assert a cause of action against all defendants for violation of section 10(b) and rule 10b-5 of the securities exchange act of 1934 and a cause of action against the individual defendants for violation of section 20(a) of the exchange act. the complaint alleges that the defendants failed to disclose related-party transactions, including the following: providing interest free loans, forgiving personal loans, purchasing personal properties, using company funds to purchase personal items, selling individual tyco shares while concealing information from investors, and failing to disclose an ongoing criminal investigation of kozlowski, all of which resulted in an artificially inflated share price. plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and costs against all defendants and punitive exemplary damages against the individual defendants. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. as previously reported in our periodic filings, an action was filed on january 20, 2004 in the united states district court for the southern district of new york, ballard v. tyco international ltd., et al. plaintiffs are former amp shareholders who received tyco stock in connection with tyco's merger with amp. plaintiffs name as defendants tyco international ltd., pricewaterhousecoopers llp, former officers l. dennis kozlowski, mark swartz, mark belnick and former directors frank walsh and michael ashcroft. the complaint asserts causes of action under sections 10(b), 14(a) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, sections 11 and 12 (a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, common law fraud and negligent misrepresentation. the complaint seeks an award of compensatory and exemplary damages. on march 15, 2004, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred ballard to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on june 10, 2004, the court entered an order consolidating ballard with the securities action. on july 12, 2004, the company moved to dismiss the complaint. on july 19, 2004, plaintiffs moved for reconsideration of the consolidation order. on april 22, 2005, the court granted pricewaterhousecoopers llp's motion to dismiss. on july 11, 2005, the court denied the company's motion to dismiss. on july 12, 2005, the court granted plaintiffs' motion for reconsideration. on august 5, 2005, the company answered the plaintiffs' complaint. as previously reported in our periodic filings, plaintiff moved to remand davis v. kozlowski , an action originally filed on december 9, 2003, from the united states district court for the district of 23 new hampshire back to the circuit court of cook county, illinois. on march 17, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire granted plaintiff's motion to remand and denied defendants' motion to dismiss. on march 31, 2005, the company moved for reconsideration of the court's remand order, which motion remains pending before the court. as previously reported in our periodic filings, a complaint, sciallo v. tyco international ltd., et al ., was filed on september 30, 2003 in the united states district court for the southern district of new york. the plaintiffs purport to be former executives of u.s. surgical who traded their u.s. surgical stock options for tyco international, ltd. stock options when tyco acquired u.s. surgical on october 1, 1998. plaintiffs name as defendants tyco international ltd. and certain former tyco directors and executives. the complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, for common law fraud and negligence, and violation of new york general business law section 349, which prohibits deceptive acts and practices in the conduct of any business. the complaint alleges that defendants made materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, tyco's financial condition and accounting practices. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. as previously reported in our periodic filings, a complaint was filed on september 2, 2004 in the court of common pleas for dauphin county, pennsylvania, jasin v. tyco international ltd., et. al. this pro se plaintiff named as additional defendants tyco international (us) inc., l. dennis kozlowski, our former chairman and chief executive officer, mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director and juergen w. gromer, currently president of tyco electronics. plaintiff's complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, as well as section 11 of the securities act of 1933. claims against messrs. kozlowski, swartz and gromer are also asserted under section 14(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder and section 20a of the securities exchange act of 1934, as well as sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the securities act of 1933. plaintiff also asserts common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, unfair trade practice, breach of contract, breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing and violation of section 1-402 of the pennsylvania securities act of 1972. tyco has removed the complaint to the united states district court for the middle district of pennsylvania. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. the plaintiff has moved to vacate the conditional transfer order. as previously reported in our periodic filings, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation was notified that hall v. kozlowski may be an action that should be transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. thereafter, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on march 16, 2005, tyco international (us) inc. answered plaintiff's amended complaint. shareholder derivative litigation as previously reported in our periodic filings, an action was filed on june 7, 2002 in the supreme court of the state of new york, levin v. kozlowski , alleging that the individually named defendants breached their fiduciary duties, committed waste and mismanagement and engaged in self-dealing in connection with tyco's accounting practices, individual board members' use of funds, and the financial disclosures of certain mergers and acquisitions. it is further alleged that certain of the individual defendants converted corporate assets for their own use. plaintiffs seek money damages. plaintiffs agreed to stay that action pending the resolution of the federal derivative action, which was dismissed by the united states district court for the district of new hampshire on october 14, 2004; and the appeal from that ruling was voluntarily dismissed on may 19, 2005. on june 14, 2005, the plaintiffs 24 resumed the levin action. on september 22, 2005, the company filed a motion to dismiss the derivative complaint. erisa litigation and investigation as previously reported in our periodic filings, tyco and certain of our current and former employees, officers and directors, have been named as defendants in eight class actions brought under the employee retirement income security act. two of the actions were filed in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire and the six remaining actions were transferred to that court by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation. all eight actions have been consolidated in the district court in new hampshire. the complaints purported to bring claims on behalf of the tyco international (us) inc. retirement savings and investment plans and the participants therein. on january 12, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire denied, without prejudice, the company's motion to dismiss certain additional individual defendants from the action. on january 20, 2005, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. on january 27, 2005, the company answered the plaintiffs' consolidated complaint. also, on january 28, 2005, the company and certain individual defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court's january 12, 2005 order, insofar as it related to the tyco international (us) inc. retirement committee. on may 25, 2005, the court denied the motion for reconsideration. on july 11, 2005, the company and certain individual defendants opposed plaintiffs' motion for class certification. that motion is still pending. in addition, tyco and certain of our current and former executives have received requests from the united states department of labor for information concerning the administration of the tyco international (us) inc. retirement savings and investment plans. the current focus of the department's inquiry concerns losses allegedly experienced by the plans due to investments in our shares. the department of labor has authority to bring suit on behalf of the plans and their participants against those acting as fiduciaries to the plans for recovery of losses and additional penalties, although it has not informed us of any intention to do so. tyco litigation against former senior management tyco international, ltd. v. l. dennis kozlowski, united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-7317, filed september 12, 2002, amended april 1, 2003. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former chairman and chief executive officer for breach of fiduciary duty and other wrongful conduct. the company amended that complaint on april 1, 2003. the amended complaint alleges that the defendant misappropriated millions of dollars from our key employee loan program and relocation program; awarded millions of dollars in unauthorized bonuses to himself and certain other tyco employees; engaged in improper self-dealing real estate transactions involving our assets; and conspired with certain other former tyco employees in committing these acts. the amended complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unjust enrichment, breach of contract, conversion, constructive trust, and other wrongful conduct. the amended complaint seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the former chairman and chief executive officer's conduct, and of all remuneration, including restricted and unrestricted shares and options, obtained by mr. kozlowski during the course of this conduct. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on october 6, 2003, mr. kozlowski filed a motion to dismiss or stay the case and compel arbitration, which was denied on march 16, 2004, with one exception relating to the arbitration of a claim asserting the fraudulent inducement of mr. kozlowski's retention agreement. on april 9, 2004, mr. kozlowski filed an answer, affirmative defenses and counterclaims, seeking amounts allegedly due pursuant to his purported retention agreement, life insurance policies, and other arrangements. tyco filed its reply to the counterclaims on april 29, 2004. 25 mr. kozlowski was tried on criminal charges in new york county. the first criminal trial resulted in a mistrial declared on april 2, 2004. the retrial of mr. kozlowski began on january 18, 2005 and concluded on june 17, 2005, when the jury returned verdicts. of the thirty-one counts submitted to it, which were similar to certain of the claims alleged in the company's affirmative action described above, the jury found mr. kozlowski guilty on all charges of grand larceny, conspiracy and securities fraud, and all but one count of falsification of business records. on september 19, 2005, mr. kozlowski was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of eight and one third years to twenty five years, and ordered to pay an individual fine of $70 million and restitution, jointly and severally with mr. swartz, to tyco of $134 million within one year. tyco international, ltd. v. mark h. swartz, united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 03-cv-2247 (tpg), filed april 1, 2003. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed an arbitration claim against mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director, on october 7, 2002. as a consequence of mr. swartz's refusal to submit to the jurisdiction of the american arbitration association, we filed a civil complaint against him on april 1, 2003, for breach of fiduciary duty and other wrongful conduct. the action alleges that the defendant misappropriated millions of dollars from our key employees loan program and relocation program; approved and implemented awards of millions of dollars of unauthorized bonuses to himself and certain other tyco employees; awarded millions of dollars in unauthorized payments to himself; engaged in improper self dealing real estate transactions involving our assets; and conspired with certain other former tyco employees in committing these acts. the complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unjust enrichment, conversion, and constructive trust, and other wrongful conduct. the action seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the former chief financial officer and director's conduct, and all remuneration, including restricted and unrestricted shares and options, obtained by mr. swartz's during the course of this conduct. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. mr. swartz moved to dismiss tyco's complaint and to compel arbitration of the parties' respective claims. the court denied swartz's motion and he has appealed the court's decision to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit. his appeal was heard on december 8, 2004. the first circuit affirmed the district court's decision on september 7, 2005. mr. swartz was tried on criminal charges in new york county. the first criminal trial resulted in a mistrial declared on april 2, 2004. the retrial of mr. swartz began on january 18, 2005 and concluded on june 17, 2005, when the jury returned verdicts. of the thirty-one counts submitted to it, which were similar to certain of the claims alleged in the company's affirmative action described above, the jury found mr. swartz guilty on all charges of grand larceny, conspiracy and securities fraud, and all but one count of falsification of business records. on september 19, 2005, mr. swartz was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of eight and one third years to twenty five years, and ordered to pay an individual fine of $35 million and restitution, jointly and severally with mr. kozlowski, to tyco of $134 million within one year. tyco international, ltd. v. l. dennis kozlowski and mark h. swartz, united states district court southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-9705, filed december 6, 2002. as previously disclosed in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former chairman and chief executive officer and former chief financial officer and director pursuant to section 16(b) of the securities and exchange act of 1934 for disgorgement of short-swing profits from prohibited transactions in our common shares believed to exceed $40 million. the action seeks disgorgement of profits, interest, attorney's fees and costs. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on october 6, 2003, messrs. kozlowski and swartz moved to dismiss the claims against them based upon the statute of limitations. on march 16, 2004, judge barbadoro in the district of new hampshire granted the defendants' motion to dismiss in part with leave for tyco to file an amended complaint. tyco filed an amended complaint on may 14, 2004. 26 the defendants moved to dismiss certain claims in the amended complaint on june 28, 2004. the defendants' motion to dismiss was denied on april 21, 2005. the defendants' motion to extend time to answer the complaint until thirty days after the conclusion of deliberations in the criminal trial was granted on may 17, 2005. both defendants' filed their answers on july 18, 2005. tyco international ltd. v. frank e. walsh, jr., united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-4633, filed june 17, 2002. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against a former director for breach of fiduciary duty and related wrongful conduct involving a $20 million payment in connection with a 2001 acquisition by tyco. the action alleges causes of action for restitution, breach of fiduciary duty and inducing breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, unjust enrichment, and a constructive trust, and seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the defendant director's conduct. on december 17, 2002, mr. walsh paid $20 million in restitution to tyco, which was deposited by the company in january 2003, as a result of a plea bargain agreement with the new york county district attorney. our claims against mr. walsh are still pending. discovery in this action had been stayed as a result of a motion by the new york county district attorney's office. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. after the case was transferred to new hampshire, the district court ruled that some discovery could proceed. discovery in this and other affirmative cases has thus far consisted of the production of documents. tyco international ltd. v. mark a. belnick, no. 02-cv-4644 (swk) , filed june 17, 2002. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former executive vice president and chief corporate counsel for breach of fiduciary duty and other wrongful conduct. on october 21, 2002, in a related proceeding, mr. belnick commenced an arbitration proceeding in new york county, new york. on october 7, 2005, the company and mr. belnick entered into a settlement agreement that resolved all claims each party had previously asserted against the other. subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities as previously disclosed in our periodic filings, we and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec, the district attorney of new york county, the united states department of labor, the general service administration and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. we are cooperating with these investigations and are complying with these requests. certain current and former employees in fire and security received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices for the adt dealer connect fees. as previously reported in our periodic filings, these practices have been discontinued. the united states department of labor served document subpoenas on tyco and fidelity management trust company for documents concerning the administration of the tyco international (us) inc. retirement savings and investment plans. the current focus of the department's inquiry concerns the losses allegedly experienced by the plans due to investments in our stock. the department of labor has authority to bring suit on behalf of the plans and their participants against those acting as fiduciaries to the plans for recovery of losses and additional penalties, although it has not informed us of any intention to do so. the company is continuing to cooperate with the department's investigation. in november 2004, we received an order from the sec to report facts and circumstances involving our participation, if any, in the united nations oil for food program governing sales of iraqi oil. on january 10, 2005, we responded to the order and will fully cooperate in any ongoing investigations. 27 intellectual property and antitrust litigation as previously disclosed in our periodic filings, we are a party to a number of patent infringement and antitrust actions. tyco has assessed the status of these matters and has recorded liabilities related to certain of these matters where appropriate. mallinckrodt, inc. ("mallinckrodt") and nellcor puritan bennett, inc. ("nellcor"), plaintiffs/counter-defendants v. masimo corporation ("masimo") et al., defendants/counter-claimants, is a consolidated patent infringement action filed on june 19, 2000 in the united states district court for the central district of california. nellcor is a subsidiary of tyco. nellcor alleges that masimo infringed one nellcor patent related to pulse oximeters, which are medical devices used to measure blood oxygen levels in patients, and masimo alleges that nellcor infringed four masimo patents related to pulse oximeters. trial in the action commenced on february 18, 2004. on march 16, 2004, the jury returned a liability finding that nellcor willfully infringed the four masimo patents and that masimo did not infringe the one nellcor patent. on march 26, 2004, the jury awarded masimo $135 million in damages for nellcor's alleged infringement through december 31, 2003. after hearing post-trial motions, the district court issued an order on july 14, 2004 which (i) denied masimo's request to impose an injunction on the sale of pulse oximeters; (ii) reversed the jury finding of patent infringement for one of the four patents at issue; (iii) ruled that a second patent was unenforceable due to masimo's inequitable conduct in seeking the patent; and (iv) overturned the jury finding that the infringement was "willful." on august 6, 2004, the district court entered final judgment that included additional damages of $30 million for nellcor's alleged infringement from january 1, 2004 through may 31, 2004. nellcor asserts that masimo infringes a second nellcor patent (u.s. patent no. 4,934,372 the "'372 patent"). on april 8, 2005, the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit issued a decision in nellcor's favor that reversed the district court's summary judgment finding of no infringement regarding the '372 patent claim against masimo. the court of appeals remanded nellcor's '372 patent claim to the district court for further proceedings. the district court has not yet scheduled trial in the '372 case. nellcor appealed the jury's infringement finding on the remaining two masimo patents to the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit. on september 7, 2005, the court of appeals issued a decision on the appeal that was adverse to nellcor. in particular, the court of appeals: (1) affirmed the infringement finding against nellcor on two patents; (2) reversed the district court's ruling of non-infringement of a third patent; and (3) reversed the district court's ruling not to enter an injunction and directed the district court to issue an injunction. the court of appeals also: (1) affirmed the district court's ruling that nellcor's infringement was not willful, which precluded masimo from seeking up to treble damages; and (2) affirmed the district court's ruling that one of masimo's patents was unenforceable due to masimo's inequitable conduct in seeking the patent. the company has assessed the amount of potential additional damages and interest accruing from the date of entry of final judgment to the present. accordingly, during the fiscal quarter ending september 30, 2005, tyco recorded a pre-tax charge of $277 million related to this matter and does not expect to incur material losses beyond the amount accrued. masimo corporation v. tyco healthcare group lp ("tyco healthcare") and mallinckrodt, inc. is a separate lawsuit filed on may 22, 2002 also pending in the united states district court for the central district of california. tyco healthcare and mallinckrodt are subsidiaries of tyco. in this lawsuit, masimo alleges violations of antitrust laws against tyco healthcare and mallinckrodt in the markets for pulse oximeter products. masimo alleges that tyco healthcare and mallinckrodt used their market position to prevent hospitals from purchasing masimo's pulse oximetry products. masimo seeks injunctive relief and monetary damages, including treble damages. trial in this case began on february 22, 2005. the jury returned its verdict on march 21, 2005, and awarded masimo $140 million in damages. the damages are automatically trebled under the antitrust statute to an award of $420 million. masimo's attorneys are entitled to an award of reasonable fees and costs in addition to 28 the verdict amount. the district court held a hearing on june 28, 2005 regarding post-trial motions. the parties are awaiting a decision on the post-trial motions. tyco has assessed the status of this matter and has concluded that it is more likely than not that the jury's decision will be overturned, and, further, tyco intends to vigorously pursue all available means to achieve such reversal. accordingly, no provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements with respect to this damage award. beginning on august 29, 2005 with natchitoches parish hospital service district v. tyco international, ltd., ten consumer class actions have been filed against nellcor in the united states district court for the central district of california. the remaining nine actions are allied orthopedic appliances, inc. v. tyco healthcare group, lp., and mallinckrodt inc. filed on august 29, 2005, scott valley respiratory home care v. tyco healthcare group lp and mallinckrodt inc. filed on october 27, 2005, brooks memorial hospital et al v. tyco healthcare group lp filed on october 18, 2005, all star oxygen services, inc. et al v. tyco healthcare group, et al filed on october 25, 2005, niagara falls memorial medical center, et al v. tyco healthcare group lp filed on october 28, 2005, nicholas h. noyes memorial hospital v. tyco healthcare and mallinckrodt filed on november 4, 2005, north bay hospital, inc. v. tyco healthcare group, et al filed on november 15, 2005, stephen skoronski v. tyco international ltd, et al filed on november 21, 2005 and abington memorial hospital v. tyco int'l ltd.; tyco int'l (us) inc.; mallinckrodt inc.; tyco healthcare group lp filed on november 22, 2005. in all nine complaints the putative class representatives, on behalf of themselves and others, seek to recover overcharges they allege they paid for pulse oximetry products as a result of anticompetitive conduct by nellcor in violation of the federal antitrust laws. the company will respond to these complaints and intends to vigorously defend the actions. as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, applied medical resources corp. ("applied medical") v. united states surgical ("u.s. surgical") is a patent infringement action that was filed in april 1999 in which u.s. surgical, a subsidiary of tyco, is the defendant. in february 2002, the united states district court for the central district of california held that u.s. surgical's versaseal universal seal system, contained in certain surgical trocar and access devices manufactured by u.s. surgical, infringed certain of the plaintiff's patents. the district court entered a permanent injunction against u.s. surgical based upon infringement of one of the three patents involved in the suit. the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit affirmed the district court's permanent injunction ruling in september 2003 for the versaseal product, which is no longer on the market. in october 2003, the district court ruled in u.s. surgical's favor, holding that two other patents involved in the case were invalid. a trial on damages for the earlier infringement ruling in the district court concluded on july 27, 2004. the jury awarded applied medical $44 million in damages and returned a finding that the earlier infringement was willful, giving the district court discretion to enhance those damages to up to treble the damages awarded to applied medical by the jury. on october 1, 2004, the district court issued post-trial rulings that (i) denied u.s. surgical's motion to set aside the jury's finding on willfulness; and (ii) granted applied medical's motion for enhanced damages, enhancing the jury's damages award by 25%, or $11 million. on january 27, 2005, the district court awarded applied medical $10 million in costs, prejudgment interest and attorneys' fees. thus, applied medical's total award is $65 million. u.s. surgical has appealed the damages award and the willfulness finding to the court of appeals for the federal circuit. briefing for the appeal has concluded and oral argument has not yet been scheduled. tyco has recorded a liability related to this matter and does not expect to incur material losses beyond what has already been accrued. on july 31, 2003, applied medical filed another patent infringement suit against u.s. surgical in the united states district court for the central district of california. the complaint alleges that u.s. surgical's versaseal plus trocar product infringes applied medical's u.s. patent no. 5,385,533. applied medical seeks injunctive relief and unspecified monetary damages, including enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement. applied medical filed a motion for a preliminary injunction, which the district court denied on december 23, 2003. on february 7, 2005, the district court granted 29 u.s. surgical's motion for summary judgment. applied medical is appealing the summary judgment ruling. briefing on applied medical's appeal has concluded and oral argument has not yet been scheduled. environmental litigation we have been in discussions with the u.s. environmental protection agency and the new jersey department of environmental protection regarding historic environmental compliance issues at a facility sold by tyco in 2000. at this time, although these governmental authorities have not commenced any formal legal proceedings, we believe such proceedings are contemplated by these governmental authorities, and that such proceedings may result in potential monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more. however, we do not believe that any such monetary sanctions will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in june 2005, the wisconsin department of natural resources issued a notice of violation to tyco safety products, a subsidiary within the tyco fire and security business segment, concerning self-reported air permit compliance recordkeeping deficiencies. based on discussions with the department, we anticipate enforcement proceedings are contemplated, and such proceeding may result in potential monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more. however, we do not believe that any sanction will have a material adverse affect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. commercial litigation sensormatic v. winner and bagnara, inc. is a franchise dispute for which sensormatic originally filed a complaint in 1999 in the united states district court for the western district of pennsylvania seeking declaratory relief. on june 28, 2004, the district court entered a stipulated judgment fixing the amount of the defendant's past damages and commissions for royalties allegedly owed under the franchise agreement in the amount of $28 million, plus $5 million in pre-judgment interest, and the entry of an injunction requiring sensormatic to tender the franchise to the defendant. the judgment stayed the imposition and payment of these damages and injunctive relief until resolution of an appeal of the district court's underlying rulings on liability to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit. on june 29, 2004, sensormatic filed its notice of appeal to the court of appeals. on august 31, 2005, the appellate court affirmed the district court judgment. a request for re-hearing before the entire third circuit was denied. no further appeals have been taken and the judgment was satisfied on october 20, 2005. the company does not expect to incur material losses beyond what has already been accrued and paid. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders none. 30 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the number of registered holders of tyco's common shares at december 6, 2005 was 46,928. tyco common shares are listed and traded on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") and the bermuda stock exchange under the symbol "tyc." the following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of tyco common shares as reported by the nyse, and the dividends paid on tyco common shares, for the quarterly periods presented below. year ended september 30, 2005 year ended september 30, 2004 market price range market price range quarter dividend per common share dividend per common share high low high low first $ 36.27 $ 29.78 $ 0.0125 $ 26.85 $ 20.70 $ 0.0125 second 36.37 33.18 0.1000 30.06 26.48 0.0125 third 34.44 28.53 0.1000 33.14 27.39 0.0125 fourth 30.96 27.00 0.1000 32.70 29.66 0.0125 $ 0.3125 $ 0.0500 dividend policy we may from time to time enter into financing agreements that contain financial covenants and restrictions, some of which may limit the ability of tyco to pay dividends. future dividends on our common shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.0125 to $0.10 per share. issuer purchases of equity securities period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under publicly announced plans or programs 7/2/05-7/29/05 7/30/05-9/2/05 (1) 15,771,462 $ 28.77 15,771,462 9/3/05-9/30/05 (2) 10,477,200 $ 28.63 10,477,200 total 26,248,662 26,248,662 (1) transactions represent the repurchase of a portion of the company's outstanding convertible debt prior to its scheduled maturity. (see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements). the average price paid per share is calculated by dividing the total cash paid for the debt by the number of underlying shares of the debt. (2) transactions represent the purchase of common shares on the nyse as part of the $1.5 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in july 2005. the average price paid per share is calculated by dividing the total cash paid for the shares by the total number of shares repurchased. approximately $1.2 billion remains outstanding under this share repurchase program. 31 item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of tyco. this data is derived from tyco's consolidated financial statements for the five years ended september 30, 2005. this selected financial data should be read in conjunction with tyco's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of this annual report titled item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 2005 (1) 2004 (2) 2003 (3)(4) 2002 (5) 2001 (6)(7)(8) (in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of income data: net revenue $ 39,727 $ 38,411 $ 34,256 $ 33,102 $ 31,684 income (loss) from continuing operations 3,199 2,948 882 (3,041 ) 3,672 net income (loss) 3,032 2,879 980 (9,180 ) 3,464 basic earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations 1.59 1.47 0.44 (1.53 ) 2.03 net income (loss) 1.51 1.44 0.49 (4.62 ) 1.92 diluted earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations 1.51 1.38 0.44 (1.53 ) 1.95 net income (loss) 1.43 1.35 0.49 (4.62 ) 1.84 cash dividends per share (9) 0.31 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 consolidated balance sheets data (end of period): total assets $ 62,621 $ 63,667 $ 62,997 $ 65,500 $ 70,413 long-term debt 10,600 14,542 18,096 16,528 19,595 shareholders' equity 32,450 30,292 26,369 24,081 31,080 (1) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2005 includes net restructuring charges of $11 million, long-lived asset impairment charges of $6 million, a loss of $1,013 million related to the retirement of debt, a $277 million charge related to a patent dispute in the healthcare segment, a net credit of $271 million related to divestitures, a $70 million charge related to certain former executives' employment, a $50 million charge related to an sec enforcement action, a $4 million charge related to the write-down of an investment as well as $109 million of income related to a court-ordered restitution award. net income also includes a $188 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $21 million gain, net of income taxes, related to a cumulative effect adjustment (see note 8). (2) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2004 includes net restructuring charges of $212 million, charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $52 million, a loss of $284 million related to the retirement of debt and a charge of $116 million related to divestitures. net income also includes a $69 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (3) in 2003, tyco consolidated variable interest entities in accordance with the transition provisions of financial accounting standards board interpretation ("fin") no. 46, "consolidation of variable interest entities, as more fully described in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. as a result, tyco recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $75 million, net of income taxes. (4) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2003 includes charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $815 million, charges for changes in estimates of $383 million which arose from the company's intensified internal audits and detailed controls and operating reviews (includes net restructuring credits of $72 million and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $10 million), other charges of $154 million, charges for the impairment of goodwill of $278 million, a net loss related to the retirement of debt of $128 million, a charge of $91 million for a retroactive incremental premium on prior period directors and officers insurance, a charge of $12 million relating to the write-down of investments, other interest expense of $2 million, other interest income of $19 million, and net restructuring credits of $11 million. net income also includes $173 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (5) loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2002 includes net restructuring and other charges of $1,862 million, charges of $3,307 million for the impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill impairment charges of $1,344 million, and a charge for the write-off of purchased research and development of $18 million. in addition, loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2002 includes a loss on investments of $271 million, a net gain on divestiture of $24 million and $30 million of income relating to the retirement of debt. net loss also includes a $6,138 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. 32 (6) in 2001, tyco changed its revenue recognition accounting policy to conform to the requirements of staff accounting bulletin no. 101 issued by the staff of the securities and exchange commission. as a result, tyco recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $654 million, net of income taxes. in 2001, tyco also recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $29 million, net of income taxes, in accordance with the transition provisions of statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 133, "accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities." (7) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2001 includes a net charge of $577 million for restructuring and other charges, a charge for the write-off of purchased in-process research and development of $184 million and charges of $119 million for the impairment of long-lived assets. income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2001 also includes a net gain on sale of businesses of $410 million, a loss on investments of $134 million, a loss of $26 million relating to the retirement of debt and a net gain on the sale of common shares of a subsidiary of $25 million. net income includes $475 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations for the year ended september 30, 2001. (8) income from continuing operations includes goodwill amortization of $517 million for the year ended september 30, 2001. effective october 1, 2001, the company adopted sfas no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets," under which goodwill is no longer amortized. (9) on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.0125 to $0.10 per share. as a result, in 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common share in the first quarter of 2005 and $0.10 per common share thereafter. prior to 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common share for all periods presented. the payment of dividends by tyco in the future will depend on business conditions, tyco's financial condition and earnings and other factors. 33 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the selected financial data and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements due to many factors, including but not limited to those under the headings "risk factors" and "forward-looking information." introduction the consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of tyco international ltd., a company organized under the laws of bermuda, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as "we," the "company" or "tyco") and have been prepared in united states dollars, and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). the company operates in the following business segments: fire and security designs, manufactures, installs, monitors and services electronic security and fire protection systems; electronics designs, manufactures and distributes electrical and electronic components; healthcare designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices and supplies, imaging agents, pharmaceuticals and adult incontinence and infant care products; and engineered products and services designs, manufactures, distributes and services engineered products, including industrial valves and controls, as well as steel tubular goods, and provides environmental and other industrial consulting services. unless otherwise indicated, references in this annual report to 2005, 2004 and 2003 are to tyco's fiscal years ended september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. overview our business strategy focuses on enhancing internal growth and operational efficiency for existing tyco businesses. we achieve this goal primarily through new product innovation, increased market share, and continued geographic expansion. we have implemented and will continue to implement additional six sigma initiatives across our business segments to achieve best-in-class operating practices. the company has engaged in a series of restructuring programs since november 2003 through which we have made our operations more efficient, including exiting certain non-core businesses or business lines and streamlining general operations. the impact of these restructuring programs on the company's operations is discussed in "operating results" and "segment results." also, during the fourth quarter of 2005, the company committed to a plan to sell its plastics and adhesives segment. as such, the operations of our plastics and adhesives segment are reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. details related to the company's divestiture program and the related discontinued operations are discussed in "divestitures and discontinued operations." we are continuing to assess the strategic fit of our various businesses and are considering additional divestitures where businesses do not align with our long term vision. in 2005, we continued to utilize cash to fund internal growth, strengthen the balance sheet and return capital to shareholders. during 2005, we utilized $3.0 billion to repurchase our convertible debentures prior to their scheduled maturities. in total, these repurchases reduced our diluted share count by approximately 88.9 million shares on an annualized basis with the added benefit of reducing our debt and interest expense. in addition, we utilized $2.0 billion in cash for scheduled repayments of debentures. also, in july 2005, tyco's board of directors approved a $1.5 billion share repurchase 34 program. as of september 30, 2005, we have repurchased 10.5 million of our common shares for $300 million. in the two weeks following the end of the fourth quarter of 2005, we have repurchased an additional 7.9 million of our common shares for $216 million. as a result of this program, we anticipate spending a total of approximately $2 billion through the second quarter of 2006 for these repurchases. during the first quarter of 2005, we announced a substantial increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.0125 per share to $0.10 per share. as a result, dividend payments for 2005 increased to $628 million from $100 million in the comparable prior year period. references to tyco are to the company's continuing operations. prior year amounts have been reclassified to exclude the results of discontinued operations and to comparatively reflect changes in the company's segment reporting. the operating results of the tgn are presented within corporate and other through the date of its disposal in the third quarter of 2005. information for 2003 has been reclassified to reflect the transfer of tyco's precision interconnect business from healthcare to electronics in 2004. operating results the following table details net revenue and earnings for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 ($ in millions): 2005 2004 2003 revenue from product sales $ 31,955 $ 30,337 $ 27,114 service revenue 7,772 8,074 7,142 net revenue $ 39,727 $ 38,411 $ 34,256 operating income $ 5,795 $ 5,236 $ 2,877 interest income 123 91 107 interest expense (815 ) (956 ) (1,147 ) other expense, net (911 ) (286 ) (223 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 4,192 4,085 1,614 income taxes (984 ) (1,123 ) (729 ) minority interest (9 ) (14 ) (3 ) income from continuing operations 3,199 2,948 882 (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (188 ) (69 ) 173 income before cumulative effect of accounting change 3,011 2,879 1,055 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes 21 (75 ) net income $ 3,032 $ 2,879 $ 980 net revenue increased $1.3 billion, or 3.4%, for 2005 as compared to 2004, which resulted from growth in all segments. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected 2005 by $876 million while the impact of divestitures and acquisitions negatively impacted the period by $689 million. operating income increased $559 million, or 10.7%, for 2005 while operating margin increased 1.0 percentage point to 14.6%. 2005 was favorably impacted by the gain on the sale of the tgn business ($303 million). in addition, the year was unfavorably impacted by charges related to an adverse decision by the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit on a patent dispute in the healthcare segment ($277 million), a charge related to an sec enforcement action of $50 million and a charge relating to former executives' employment of $70 million. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected operating income by $142 million. 35 net revenue increased $4.2 billion, or 12.1%, for 2004 as compared to 2003, which resulted from growth in all segments. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected the period by $1.7 billion while the impact of divestitures negatively impacted the period by $638 million. operating income increased $2.4 billion, or 82.0%, for 2004 while operating margin increased 5.2 percentage points to 13.6%. operating income for 2004 was unfavorably impacted by charges of $380 million, consisting of the following: (i) net restructuring and other charges of $212 million, of which charges of $6 million are included in cost of sales; (ii) net losses and impairments on divestitures totaling $116 million; and (iii) charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $52 million, of which $34 million is attributable to machinery and equipment impairments at fire and security. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected operating income by $230 million. operating income for 2003 was unfavorably impacted by net charges totaling $1,625 million. these charges consisted of: (i) charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $815 million; (ii) charges recorded for changes in estimates of $298 million which arose from the company's intensified internal audits and detailed controls and operating reviews (includes net restructuring credits of $72 million, of which credits of $13 million are included in costs of sales, charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $10 million, charges of $240 million included in selling, general and administrative expenses, and charges of $120 million included in cost of sales); (iii) charges for the impairment of goodwill of $278 million; (iv) other charges of $154 million, of which $34 million is included in cost of sales related primarily to product warranty reserves and the dismantlement of customers' adt security systems, and $120 million is included in selling, general and administrative expenses related primarily to uncollectible accounts receivable, internal investigation fees, as well as severance and facility closures, slightly offset by a credit for changes in estimates of charges recorded in prior periods; (v) a charge of $91 million for a retroactive, incremental premium on prior period directors and officers insurance included in selling, general and administrative expenses; and (vi) net restructuring credits of $11 million, of which charges of $2 million are included in cost of sales. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected operating income by $191 million. results by geographic area net revenue by geographic area for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as follows ($ in millions): 2005 2004 2003 net revenue: united states $ 19,635 $ 19,632 $ 18,309 other americas 2,202 2,103 1,786 europe 11,476 10,892 9,256 asia-pacific 6,414 5,784 4,905 net revenue (1) $ 39,727 $ 38,411 $ 34,256 (1) revenue from external customers is attributed to individual countries based on the reporting entity that records the transaction. segment results the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each continuing segment. divestitures have impacted certain of our segments since the establishment of our divestiture program in early 2004. see further details in "divestitures and discontinued operations" and "acquisitions" below. 36 fire and security the following table sets forth net revenue and operating income and margin for fire and security for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 ($ in millions): 2005 2004 2003 revenue from product sales $ 5,299 $ 5,343 $ 4,894 service revenue 6,204 6,104 5,938 net revenue $ 11,503 $ 11,447 $ 10,832 operating income $ 1,216 $ 899 $ 342 operating margin 10.6 % 7.9 % 3.2 % net revenue for fire and security remained relatively level during 2005 as compared to 2004 as the decrease in product revenue was offset by an increase in service revenue. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of security, fire protection and other systems. net revenue increased due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates ($274 million) and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volume of breathing and intrusion products at tyco safety products as well as growth in our european fire services business. these increases were offset by the impact of divestitures ($315 million) and decreased sales at our security business in europe. operating income increased $317 million in 2005 over the prior year. results for the current period included net restructuring related charges of $9 million as compared to net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $264 million in 2004. operating income for 2005 was also favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange rates ($26 million) as well as cost savings related to operational excellence initiatives and prior year restructuring programs. these cost reductions were partially offset by increased investment in sales and marketing. in addition, 2005 was unfavorably impacted by $18 million of divestiture-related charges. attrition rates for customers in our global electronic security services business decreased to an average of 14.8% on a trailing twelve-month basis for 2005, as compared to 15.1% for 2004 and 15.9% in 2003. net revenue for fire and security increased 5.7% in 2004 as compared to 2003, including a 9.2% increase in product revenue and a 2.8% increase in service revenue. the increase in net revenue was primarily due to favorable currency exchange rates ($526 million) slightly offset by the effects of divestitures ($82 million). to a lesser extent, the increase in net revenue was due to stronger sales to retailers within worldwide security and higher sales volume of breathing systems and video and access control product at tyco safety products. this increase was partially offset by weakness in the worldwide fire service business and continental europe security. operating income and margin increased significantly in 2004 as compared in 2003 due partially to total charges of $512 million which were recorded during 2003, discussed below. additionally, the increase in operating income and margin was due to improvements within worldwide security related primarily to the combined impact of a stronger retailer market environment and cost reductions. also contributing to the increase, to a lesser extent, were improvements within continental europe security as a result of cost saving initiatives and a changing business model and tyco safety products due primarily to increased volumes. the cost savings partly reflect the benefits of the restructuring activities described below. operating income for 2004 also includes charges totaling $264 million, consisting primarily of restructuring ($175 million, of which $4 million is included in cost of sales), impairment ($34 million) and divestiture ($55 million) charges, substantially all of which are associated with the comprehensive cost reduction measures that began during 2003. operating income and margin in 2003 included charges totaling $512 million. included within the $512 million are charges of $266 million (includes charges of $128 million primarily related to 37 adjustments to liabilities such as workers' compensation, professional fees, and environmental exposure, a charge of $98 million primarily due to adjusting allowances for doubtful accounts and slow and non-moving inventory, as well as a write-off of subscriber systems, charges of $34 million for other adjustments primarily related to deferred commissions, and charges of $6 million related to reconciling items) recorded in connection with the company's intensified internal audits, detailed controls and operating reviews performed during the year. also included within the $512 million are impairment charges of $143 million primarily related to the impairment of intangible assets associated with the adt dealer program mostly as a result of increased attrition rates, and to the impairment of property, plant and equipment of subscriber systems and other fixed assets; net restructuring and other charges of $10 million, of which charges of $4 million are included in cost of sales and $3 million is for the write-off of non-current assets, related to streamlining the business; and other charges of $93 million, of which $34 million is included in cost of sales and $59 million is included in selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily related to uncollectible receivables, product warranty and the dismantlement of customers' adt security systems. included within the $143 million impairment charge and the $10 million net restructuring charge is a charge of $10 million and a credit of $2 million, respectively, also related to changes in estimates recorded during the quarter ended march 31, 2003. electronics the following table sets forth net revenue and operating income and margin for electronics for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 ($ in millions): 2005 2004 2003 revenue from product sales $ 12,042 $ 11,372 $ 10,052 service revenue 154 450 440 net revenue $ 12,196 $ 11,822 $ 10,492 operating income $ 1,852 $ 1,749 $ 1,241 operating margin 15.2 % 14.8 % 11.8 % net revenue for electronics increased $374 million or 3.2% in 2005 as compared to 2004, including a 5.9% increase in product revenue. the increase in net revenue was driven primarily by sales to the automotive, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, power utilities, communications equipment manufacturing, and communication service markets. in addition, revenue increased substantially due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates ($294 million). these increases were partially offset by the impact of the divestiture of the electrical contracting services business ($353 million). operating income and operating margin for 2005 increased as compared to 2004 due primarily to increased sales volume, cost savings initiatives and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates ($57 million). these increases were partially offset by an 80 basis point impact of increased commodity costs. additionally, operating income for 2005 included net restructuring and other credits of $5 million, as compared to net restructuring, divestiture and impairment charges of $22 million in 2004, discussed below. net revenue for electronics increased 12.7% in 2004 as compared to 2003, including a 13.1% increase in product revenue and a 2.3% increase in service revenue. the increase in net revenue was primarily a result of growth in existing businesses, specifically, the automotive, computer, consumer electronics, communications and industrial and commercial markets. this growth was partially offset by a decrease in sales of power systems products in north america and in our electrical contracting services, which was divested in september 2004. additionally, favorable changes in foreign currency rates ($560 million) contributed to the increase in net revenue. 38 the 40.9% increase in operating income and the 3.0 percentage point increase in margin in 2004 as compared to 2003 were primarily due to the revenue growth discussed above, cost savings initiatives that were executed in 2003, the positive impact of foreign currency ($90 million) and fewer charges recorded in 2004 as compared to 2003. these increases in operating income were partially offset by an 80 basis point impact of increased metal prices for copper and gold. operating income for 2004 includes net restructuring, divestiture and impairment charges totaling $22 million. these net charges include a $52 million charge related to the divestiture of the electrical contracting services business, partially offset by $33 million of net restructuring credits related to changes in estimates of severance, facility exit costs, distributor and supplier cancellation fees recorded in prior periods and the impact of the sale of assets that were impaired in prior years for amounts greater than originally anticipated. these net charges also include a $3 million charge related to the impairment of property, plant, and equipment. operating income and margin for 2003 include net charges totaling $236 million. the $236 million consists primarily of charges for the impairment of goodwill of $278 million in power systems, electrical contracting services and the printed circuit group, restructuring credits of $72 million, of which $20 million is included in cost of sales, related primarily to changes in estimates of severance and facility exit costs recorded in prior years and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $1 million. the net restructuring credit of $72 million includes $55 million of credits, which were changes in estimates recorded in connection with the company's intensified internal audits and detailed controls and operating reviews performed during 2003. also included within the $236 million are charges of $14 million related to adjusting asset reserves, $6 million related to the adjustments to accrual balances, and $9 million of reconciliation and other accounting adjustments, which were also recorded in connection with the company's intensified internal audits and detailed controls and operating reviews performed during 2003. healthcare the following table sets forth net revenue and operating income and margin for healthcare for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 ($ in millions): 2005 2004 2003 revenue from product sales $ 9,477 $ 9,040 $ 8,344 service revenue 66 70 76 net revenue $ 9,543 $ 9,110 $ 8,420 operating income $ 2,286 $ 2,365 $ 2,104 operating margin 24.0 % 26.0 % 25.0 % net revenue for healthcare increased $433 million or 4.8% in 2005 as compared to 2004. this increase resulted primarily from growth in existing businesses and, to a lesser extent, favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates ($141 million). growth in healthcare's underlying businesses was principally driven by increased revenue within medical devices &amp; supplies which was largely the result of increased sales volume in the international division, primarily in europe, due to a salesforce investment and sales growth in vessel sealing, laparoscopy, and stapling. increased sales at the surgical division within medical devices &amp; supplies also strongly contributed, due to enhanced contracting with group purchasing organizations, increased acceptance of laparoscopic gastric by-pass procedures and increased adoption of ligasure device. pharmaceuticals also contributed to the increase in revenue, although to a lesser extent. these increases were partially offset by decreased sales in retail primarily due to a difficult competitive environment and customer consolidations. 39 the decreases in operating income and operating margin in 2005 as compared to 2004 were due primarily to a $277 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005, associated with the adverse decision by the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit on a previously disclosed legal matter. (refer to note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.) this charge, combined with declines in the retail division as a result of the competitive environment mentioned above as well as increased material and transportation costs, was offset by substantial increases from other divisions, specifically the international and surgical divisions within medical devices &amp; supplies as well as within pharmaceutical. increases in these divisions were due to strong sales growth as mentioned above, combined with a favorable product mix. also positively impacting the segment were reduced administrative expenses at the segment level, as well as favorable foreign exchange rates ($41 million). in november of 2005, the mallinckrodt imaging division voluntarily recalled two medical imaging products from the market. in each instance, healthcare was concerned with the procedures that were being used to assure the sterility of each product. healthcare has not received any reports of adverse events involving patient health or safety with regard to either product. healthcare's mallinckrodt imaging division will not restart the manufacture of the products until all corrective actions have been implemented. healthcare does not expect that the voluntary recall of these two products in november of 2005 will have a material adverse impact on the company. net revenue for healthcare increased 8.2% in 2004 as compared to 2003. the increase in net revenue resulted primarily from growth in existing businesses as well as favorable foreign currency exchange rates ($292 million). growth in healthcare's underlying businesses was primarily a result of increased net revenue within medical devices &amp; supplies, and to a lesser extent, at pharmaceuticals. the increase at medical devices &amp; supplies was largely driven by higher sales volume within our international division, particularly in europe, due to benefits realized from the sales force investment, back order recovery, growth in spain and italy and the absence of an unfavorable $47 million contractual adjustment recorded in 2003. also contributing to the increase in medical devices &amp; supplies were higher sales within the medical division resulting primarily from new sharpsafety product launches and gain in market share within the wound care market. the 12.4% increase in operating income in 2004 as compared to 2003 was due primarily to the favorable margin impact of the increased sales discussed above, favorable foreign currency exchanges rates and a continued focus on maximizing operating efficiencies. operating income was adversely impacted by a $29 million increase in legal liabilities for an ongoing patent infringement suit, and a $59 million increase in research and development costs. additionally, operating income for 2004 includes net restructuring, divestitures and impairment charges of $18 million, composed of: (i) restructuring charges of $13 million related to the closure of various facilities offset by a credit of $2 million due to costs being less than anticipated; (ii) a $4 million divestiture charge resulting from a loss on the sale of a business and (iii) $3 million of impairment charges related to the closure of various facilities. during 2003, healthcare recorded net credits totaling $2 million, including restructuring credits of $8 million due to actual costs being less than anticipated, and a credit of $7 million related to an insurance reimbursement for certain legal fees associated with product liability cases. these credits were largely offset by charges of $12 million related to asset reserves for inventory and charges of $1 million for adjustments to accrual balances related to workers' compensation, which were changes in estimates recorded in connection with the company's intensified internal audits, detailed controls and operating reviews and as a result of applying management's judgments and estimates. 40 engineered products and services the following table sets forth net revenue and operating income and margin for engineered products and services for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 ($ in millions): 2005 2004 2003 revenue from product sales $ 5,137 $ 4,582 $ 3,824 service revenue 1,319 1,425 674 net revenue $ 6,456 $ 6,007 $ 4,498 operating income $ 672 $ 620 $ 362 operating margin 10.4 % 10.3 % 8.0 % net revenue for engineered products and services increased $449 million or 7.5% in 2005 as compared to 2004. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by increased selling prices in electrical and metal products due to higher costs of steel and other raw materials. in addition, flow control and, to a lesser extent, tyco fire &amp; building products experienced growth in the industrial and commercial construction markets. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates ($167 million) also contributed to the increase in revenue. the above increases in revenue were partially offset by a decrease at infrastructure services as a result of a strategic decision to be more selective in bidding for new projects, which will result in fewer but more profitable projects. the increases in operating income and operating margin in 2005 as compared to 2004 were due primarily to increased volume and demand within the industrial and commercial markets, along with the impact of operational excellence initiatives, cost reductions from prior period restructuring programs and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates ($21 million). these increases more than offset the impact of higher raw material costs. additionally, 2005 operating income includes $1 million of a divestiture credit and $5 million of restructuring charges as compared to the $62 million of net restructuring impairment and divestiture charges in 2004 discussed below. net revenue for engineered products and services increased $1,509 million or 33.5% in 2004 as compared to 2003, of which $739 million, or 16.4%, represents a change in how we classify certain sub-contract and other costs that are paid by infrastructure services and re-billed to their customers. these costs were historically treated as "pass through" and were therefore not included in reported revenue and cost of revenue and infrastructure services. for the year ended september 30, 2004, the company began reflecting these sub-contracts costs in both revenue and cost of revenue of infrastructure services. the company has not adjusted revenue or cost of revenue for the year ended september 30, 2003 as such change was not material. further, such adjustment would have no material impact on previously reported operating income, net income or cash flow. the remaining increase in 2004 net revenue resulted primarily from increased demand and higher selling prices at tyco electrical &amp; metal products and at tyco fire &amp; building products and favorable foreign currency exchanges rates in all businesses ($298 million). further contributing to the increase, although to a much lesser extent, were improved business conditions at infrastructure services due primarily to an improved construction market and continued market share growth. sales remained flat at flow control as the impact of lower levels of non-residential construction and industrial capital spending, primarily in north america, were offset by improved activity in other end markets and geographic regions. the 71.3% increase in operating income and the 2.3 percentage point increase in margin in 2004 as compared to 2003 were due primarily to increased net revenue discussed above, the impact of cost reduction programs initiated in prior periods and the positive impact of foreign currency ($31 million). 41 these favorable increases were partly offset by the impact of higher raw material costs. additionally, operating income includes net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $62 million in 2004 compared to $56 million (discussed below) in 2003. included in the $62 million charge is $53 million of restructuring and $4 million of impairment charges related to the consolidation of manufacturing, distribution and office locations and activities at flow control and infrastructure services. the remaining $5 million divestiture charge primarily relates to an impairment of goodwill related to the sale of a business. the revenue reclassification at infrastructure services discussed above had no impact on operating income for 2004; however, this adjustment lowered 2004 operating margin by 1.5 percentage points. during 2003, we recorded charges totaling $56 million, which includes charges of $32 million related to changes in estimates recorded in connection with the company's intensified internal audits, detailed controls and operating reviews, and as a result of applying management's judgments and estimates (including $19 million related to adjustments to workers' compensation and $13 million associated with asset reserves). these charges also include charges of $8 million, of which a $6 million charge is included in cost of sales, for 2003 restructuring plans partially offset by changes in estimates due to actual costs being less than originally anticipated, charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $2 million relating to manufacturing and distribution consolidation at flow control and cost reduction projects, and other costs of $14 million included within selling, general and administrative expenses primarily related to the reorganization and consolidation of a manufacturing facility and certain business offices. corporate and other corporate net revenue was $29 million, $25 million and $14 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which related to the tgn business. corporate expense was $231 million, $397 million and $1,172 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. during 2005, we recorded a $303 million gain on the sale of the tgn business and tgn operating losses of $54 million. in addition, corporate expenses for 2005 included a $50 million charge representing the best estimate of the amount in fines and penalties that the company will likely pay to resolve the matters raised in the sec investigation that commenced in june 2002, as well as a $70 million charge for estimated legacy contingencies related to former executives' employment. corporate expense for 2004 includes net charges of $14 million, which consists of charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $8 million and net restructuring charges of $6 million primarily attributable to severance related to the relocation of the corporate headquarters. expense also included $73 million of operating losses related to the tgn. corporate expense for 2003 includes charges totaling $824 million. included within the $824 million is a charge of $91 million for an incremental increase in directors and officers insurance and charges of $39 million related to internal investigation fees. also included is a charge of $20 million primarily related to severance and benefits for corporate employees and a restructuring credit of $11 million due to actual costs being less than anticipated, both of which were changes in estimates recorded in connection with the company's intensified internal audits, detailed controls and operating reviews and as a result of applying management's judgments and estimates. corporate expense also includes net restructuring credits of $10 million, other net charges of $16 million included in selling, general and administrative expenses, and charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $679 million primarily related to the tgn business and, to a lesser extent, the closure and relocation of corporate offices and related severance and benefits. 42 interest income and expense interest income was $123 million in 2005, as compared to $91 million and $107 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. interest expense was $815 million in 2005, as compared to $956 million in 2004 and $1,147 million in 2003. the decrease in interest expense in 2005 is primarily driven by lower debt balances, partially offset by the impact of higher interest rates on our interest rate swap program compared to the same period in the prior year. the decrease in interest expense in 2004 over 2003 is primarily the result of a lower average debt balance in 2004 and the favorable impact of interest rate swap agreements executed during the year. the weighted-average rates of interest on total debt outstanding during 2005, 2004 and 2003 were 5.6%, 5.2% and 4.9%, respectively. other expense, net on september 12, 2002, indictments were filed in the supreme court of the state of new york against mr. l. dennis kozlowski, our former chairman and chief executive officer, and mr. mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director (together, the "defendants"), alleging enterprise corruption, fraud, conspiracy, grand larceny, falsifying certain business records and other crimes. on june 17, 2005, a jury convicted the defendants on 22 of 23 counts in the indictment. on september 19, 2005, the defendants were sentenced in new york state supreme court to serve eight and one third years to twenty five years in prison and to make joint restitution to the company in the amount of $134 million, resulting from the larceny convictions. the court ordered the restitution payment to be made by no later than one year from the date of sentencing. the restitution award is comprised of $109 million of previously expensed compensation made to the defendants and reported as "other expense, net" in prior years and $25 million related to a loan receivable from one of the defendants which had been and remains reflected in the company's consolidated financial statements as a receivable. in the fourth quarter of 2005, the company recognized $109 million of income, included in "other expense, net" in the accompanying consolidated statement of income. the defendants have filed a notice of appeal of the convictions. the company considered the collectibility of the restitution award and assessed the likelihood of the defendants' success upon appeal of the larceny convictions, which, if successful, could result in a change to the restitution order, and has concluded that receipt of the restitution award is probable. during 2005, other expense, net also included losses related to the repurchase of outstanding convertible debt prior to its scheduled maturity of $1,013 million. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for details regarding debt repurchases. during 2004, other expense, net consisted primarily of a net loss on the retirement of debt. the company repurchased $303 million of its 7.2% notes due 2008 for cash of $341 million, which resulted in a $38 million loss, including unamortized debt issuance costs, on the retirement of debt. additionally, the company repurchased $517 million of its outstanding 2.75% convertible senior debentures with a 2008 put option. the total purchase price paid was $750 million and the repurchase resulted in a $241 million loss on the retirement of debt, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. during 2003, other expense, net consisted primarily of a net loss on the retirement of debt of $128 million and a loss relating to the write-down of various investments of $87 million. the value of the investments were reduced when it became evident that the declines in the fair value of the investments were other than temporary, predominately due to the continuing depressed economic conditions, specifically within the telecommunications industry. 43 income taxes our effective income tax rate was 23.5%, 27.5% and 45.2% for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is primarily the result of the release of valuation allowances, benefits realized related to the tgn divestiture, as well as the court-ordered restitution award related to certain former executives for which there is no tax obligation and, to a lesser extent, increased profitability in operations in jurisdictions with lower tax rates. this decrease is partially offset by an increase in charges for which no tax benefit is available such as the loss on retirement of debt, asset impairments and the estimated settlement of the sec enforcement action. the change in the effective tax rate from 2003 to 2004 was primarily the result of increased profitability in operations primarily in jurisdictions with lower tax rates and a decrease in nondeductible charges. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $1,867 million and $1,967 million at september 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. we believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets. the valuation allowance was calculated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 109 which requires a valuation allowance be established or maintained when it is "more likely than not" that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. further, management has reviewed with tax counsel the issues raised by these taxing authorities and the adequacy of these recorded amounts. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. the company is currently under audit by the irs for the years 1997 to 2000. in connection with such examinations, certain tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax deficiencies. the company is reviewing the issues raised by the tax authorities and is contesting certain proposed tax deficiencies. amounts related to these tax deficiencies and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded through the income tax provision. in connection with the irs audits for the years 1997 to 2000, the company prepared proposed amendments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously reported. the irs is currently reviewing the proposed amendments. the company has not recorded the impact of the proposed amendments, pending the completion of the irs review. the proposed amendments, if accepted, will result in receipt of refunds or credits and a corresponding reduction to the deferred tax assets and liabilities. the company may prepare proposed amendments to prior period u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods. the proposed amendments are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 44 except for earnings that are currently distributed, no additional provision has been made for u.s. or non-u.s. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or for unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested, the investments are essentially permanent in duration, or the company has concluded that no additional tax liability will arise as a result of distribution of such earnings. a liability could arise if amounts are distributed by such subsidiaries or if such subsidiaries are ultimately disposed. it is not practicable to estimate the additional income taxes related to permanently reinvested earnings or the basis differences related to investments in subsidiaries. discontinued operations and divestitures discontinued operations in may 2005, tyco announced its intent to explore the divestiture of its plastics and adhesives business segment, a global manufacturer of plastic film, specialty tapes and adhesives, coated products and garment hangers. during the third quarter of 2005, as a result of consideration for potential sale and deteriorating operating results in the a&amp;e products business, the company performed an interim assessment of the recoverability of both goodwill and long-lived assets in the plastics and adhesives segment. estimated fair values of the reporting units and long-lived assets at plastics and adhesives were developed based on probability-weighted expected future cash flows of these assets. as a result of this assessment, the company determined that the book value of certain long-lived assets in the a&amp;e products reporting unit of plastics and adhesives was greater than their estimated fair value and consequently recorded a long-lived asset impairment of $40 million. the company also determined that the book value of the a&amp;e products reporting unit was in excess of its estimated fair value which resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of $162 million. at september 30, 2005, the plastics and adhesives segment met the held for sale criteria and its results of operations have been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. the company is negotiating a sales agreement with potential buyers and expects to complete a sale transaction in 2006. the company has assessed the recoverability of the segment's carrying value at september 30, 2005 and will continue to assess recoverability based on current fair values, less cost to sell, until the businesses are sold. depending on the outcome of the sale negotiations, the company may incur additional impairment charges. during 2005, the company divested eight businesses which were reported as discontinued operations within fire and security, plastics and adhesives and engineered products and services. the company reported losses on sale or additional impairments to write the carrying value of such assets down to their estimated fair value of $56 million ($55 million after tax) during 2005. during 2004, the company reported losses on the sale of discontinued operations of $132 million, of which $36 million related to goodwill impairments, to write the carrying value of such assets down to their fair value, less cost to sell. (gains) losses and impairments on divestitures, net during 2003, the company conducted a comprehensive review of its core businesses, and as a result, implemented a divestiture program in early 2004. during 2004, in connection with the program, the company divested twenty-one and liquidated four non-core businesses across all business segments primarily within fire and security. during 2004, the company recorded net losses and impairments on divestitures of $116 million (including $60 million of goodwill impairment charges) in continuing operations in connection with the divestiture or write-down to fair value of certain held for sale businesses. 45 in november 2004, tyco agreed to sell the tgn, its undersea fiber optic telecommunication network. the sale was consummated on june 30, 2005. as part of the sale transaction, tyco received gross cash proceeds of $130 million, and the purchaser assumed certain liabilities. in connection with this sale, tyco recorded a $303 million pre-tax gain which is reflected in (gains) losses and impairments on divestitures in the consolidated statement of income for 2005. the company has presented the operations of the tgn in continuing operations as the criteria for discontinued operations were not met. during 2005, the company divested ten businesses that were reported as continuing operations in fire and security, healthcare and engineered products and services. the company recorded net losses and impairments on divestitures of $32 million, including a $3 million charge reflected in cost of sales, in connection with the divestiture and liquidation of these businesses, as well as the write-down to estimated fair value of certain held for sale businesses. acquisitions in 2005, surgical, a division in tyco's healthcare segment, acquired vivant medical inc. ("vivant"), a developer of microwave ablation medical technology. the transaction is valued at approximately $66 million cash, with up to approximately $35 million additional cash to be paid in the future based on the achievement of certain milestones. the acquisition of vivant strengthens healthcare's surgical product portfolio. during 2004, the company completed the acquisition of two businesses within engineered products and services and fire and security for an aggregate cost of $9 million. during 2003, the company purchased seven businesses within healthcare, engineered products and services, fire and security and electronics for an aggregate cost of $44 million in cash, net of $1 million of cash acquired. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash from operations. the results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in tyco's consolidated results from the respective acquisition dates. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cumulative effect of accounting change during 2005, the company changed the measurement date for its pension and postretirement benefit plans, from september 30 th to august 31 st . the company believes that the one-month change of measurement date is a preferable change as it allows management adequate time to evaluate and report the actuarial information in the company's consolidated financial statements under the accelerated reporting deadlines. in conjunction with this change, the company recorded a $21 million after-tax gain ($28 million pre-tax) cumulative effect adjustment. refer to note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on retirement plans. during 2003, the company adopted fin no. 46, which requires identification of the company's participation in variable interest entities (vie's), which are entities with a level of invested equity that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a stand alone basis, or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest. for entities identified as vie's, fin no. 46 sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party to vie's, if any, bears a majority of the risk to its expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns. the company has programs under which it sells machinery and equipment to investors who, in turn, purchase and receive ownership and security interests in those assets. as such, the company may have certain investments in those affiliated companies whereby it provides varying degrees of financial 46 support and where the investors are entitled to a share in the results of those entities, but the company does not consolidate these entities. while these entities may be substantive operating companies, they have been evaluated for potential consolidation under fin no. 46. the company had three synthetic lease programs utilized, to some extent, by all of the company's segments to finance capital expenditures for manufacturing machinery and equipment and for ships used by tyco submarine telecommunications. during 2003, the company restructured one of the synthetic leases to meet the requirements of fin no. 46 for off-balance sheet accounting. the company reclassified the remaining two leases as capital leases and, consequently, recorded a $75 million after-tax loss ($115 million pre-tax) cumulative effect adjustment. one of the capital leases expired in december 2004 and the other is scheduled to expire in july 2006. change in fiscal year and reporting calendar alignment effective october 1, 2004, tyco changed its fiscal year end from a calendar fiscal year ending september 30 to a "52-53 week" year ending on the last friday of september, such that each quarterly period will be 13 weeks in length. for fiscal years in which there are 53 weeks, the fourth quarter reporting period will be 14 weeks, with the first such occurrence taking place in fiscal 2011. in addition, certain of the company's subsidiaries consistently closed their books up to one month prior to the company's fiscal period end. these subsidiaries now report results for the same period as the reported results of the consolidated company. the impact of this change is not material to the consolidated financial statements. this change is also consistent with the company's ongoing efforts to enhance controls and improve the transparency of its reporting, as this change better aligns the company's external reporting with the company's internal operational processes. net income for the transition period related to this change was $26 million and was reported within shareholders' equity. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. the following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. depreciation and amortization method for security monitoring systems tyco generally considers its electronic security assets in three asset pools: internally generated residential systems, internally generated commercial systems and customer accounts acquired through the adt dealer program. the determination of the depreciable lives of subscriber systems, as defined below, included in property, plant and equipment, and the amortizable lives of customer contracts and related customer relationships included in intangible assets, are primarily based on historical attrition rates, third-party lifing studies and the useful life of the underlying tangible asset. the realizable value and remaining useful lives of these assets could be impacted by changes in customer attrition rates. if the attrition rates were to rise, tyco may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization. with respect to tyco's depreciation policy for security monitoring systems installed in residential and commercial customer premises, the costs of these systems are combined in separate pools for internally generated residential and internally generated commercial account customers (collectively "subscriber systems"), and generally depreciated over ten to fourteen years. tyco concluded that for residential and commercial account pools the straight-line method of depreciation over a ten to fourteen-year period continues to be appropriate given the observed actual attrition data for these pools. tyco purchases residential security monitoring contracts from an external network of independent dealers who operate under the adt dealer program. the purchase price of these customer contracts is recorded as an intangible asset (i.e., contracts and related customer relationships). 47 intangible assets arising from the adt dealer program are amortized in pools determined by the month of contract acquisition on an accelerated basis over the period and pattern of economic benefit that is expected to be obtained from the customer relationship. tyco believes that the accelerated method that presently best achieves the matching objective described above is the double-declining balance method based on a ten-year life for the first eight years of the estimated life of the customer relationships converting to the straight-line method of amortization for the remaining four years of the estimated relationship period. actual attrition data is regularly reviewed in order to assess the continued applicability of the accelerated method of amortization described above. attrition rates for customers in our global electronic security services business were 14.8%, 15.1% and 15.9% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. revenue recognition contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, large security intruder systems, undersea cable systems and other construction related projects are recorded primarily on the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon contracted revenue and related estimated cost to completion. the risk of this methodology is its dependence upon estimates of costs to completion, which are subject to the uncertainties inherent in long-term contracts. revisions in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits in the current period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they first become determinable. if estimates are inaccurate, there is risk that our revenue and profits for the period may be overstated or understated. product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other markets participants. rebates are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. loss contingencies accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. the accruals are based on management's judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarially determined estimates. additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. income taxes in determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. these estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. deferred tax assets are also reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. in estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future state, federal and international pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. we currently have recorded significant valuation allowances that we intend to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. our income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. the realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant 48 impact on our future earnings. if a change in a valuation allowance occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition, such adjustment may impact goodwill rather than the income tax provision. changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. management is not aware of any such charges that would have a material effect on the company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if the tax liabilities relate to tax uncertainties existing at the date of the acquisition of a business, the adjustment of such tax liabilities will result in an adjustment to the goodwill recorded at the date of acquisition. goodwill in performing the goodwill assessments, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. since management's judgment is involved in performing goodwill valuation analyses, there is risk that the carrying value of our goodwill may be overstated or understated. we elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for all reporting units. goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. this approach incorporates many assumptions including future growth rates, discount factors and income tax rates. changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions could result in a goodwill impairment in future periods. disruptions to our business such as end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, the divestiture of a significant component of a reporting unit and market capitalization declines may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment first step valuation analysis for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. the company recorded goodwill impairments of $162 million in 2005, included in (loss) income from discontinued operations, and $96 million in 2004, of which $36 million is included in (loss) income from discontinued operations and the remaining $60 million is included in (gains) losses and impairments on divestitures, net on the consolidated statements of income. goodwill impairments in 2003 totaled $278 million. long-lived assets assets held and used by the company, including property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. for purposes of evaluating the recoverability of long-lived assets to be held and used, a recoverability test is performed based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. impairments to long-lived assets to be disposed of are recorded based upon the fair value of the applicable assets. since judgment is involved in determining the fair value and useful lives of long-lived assets, there is a risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may be overstated or understated. 49 liquidity and capital resources the following table summarizes the sources of our cash flow from operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003 ($ in millions): 2005 2004 2003 cash flows from operating activities: operating income $ 5,795 $ 5,236 $ 2,877 non-cash restructuring and other credits, net (18 ) (33 ) (46 ) impairment of long-lived assets 6 51 825 (gains) losses and impairments on divestitures, net (271 ) 111 goodwill impairment 278 depreciation and amortization (1) 2,100 2,119 2,142 deferred income taxes (41 ) 167 367 provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 234 318 573 debt and refinancing cost amortization 30 55 116 other, net (2) 200 78 96 net (increase) decrease in working capital (204 ) 94 (344 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable (18 ) (929 ) (119 ) interest income 123 91 107 interest expense (815 ) (956 ) (1,147 ) income tax expense (984 ) (1,123 ) (729 ) net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,137 $ 5,279 $ 4,996 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net (3) $ (1,272 ) $ (987 ) $ (1,255 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 18 929 119 acquisition of customer accounts (adt dealer program) (328 ) (254 ) (597 ) cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (47 ) (105 ) (267 ) voluntary pension contributions 115 567 205 (1) includes depreciation expense of $1,447 million, $1,428 million and $1,420 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively and amortization of intangible assets ($653 million, $691 million and $722 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively). (2) includes the add-back of net losses on the retirement of debt of $1,013 million, $284 million and $128 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (3) includes net proceeds of $94 million, $141 million and $124 million received for the sale/disposition of property, plant and equipment in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the net change in total working capital was a cash decrease of $204 million in 2005. the significant changes in working capital included a $714 million increase in accounts receivable offset by an increase of $424 million in accounts payable. the provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory decreased from $318 million during the year ended september 30, 2004 to $234 million for the current period. this decrease was largely the result of improved accounts receivable aging due to an overall improved credit profile of the customer base, particularly in the fire and security segment, and better collections. additionally, our allowance for doubtful accounts decreased from $516 million at september 30, 2004 to $422 million at september 30, 2005 primarily due to the write-off of fully reserved receivables and improved aging of accounts receivable at fire and security. the change in the inventory provision also contributed to the decrease, however to a much lesser extent. 50 cash flows from operating activities and other cash flow items by segment were as follows for the year ended september 30, 2005 ($ in millions): fire and security electronics healthcare engineered products and services corporate and other total cash flows from operating activities: operating income (loss) $ 1,216 $ 1,852 $ 2,286 $ 672 $ (231 ) $ 5,795 restructuring, impairment and other (credits) charges, net (11 ) 3 2 (6 ) (12 ) non-cash losses and impairments on divestitures, net 18 8 (1 ) (296 ) (271 ) depreciation 582 491 262 104 8 1,447 intangible assets amortization 524 68 57 4 653 depreciation and amortization 1,106 559 319 108 8 2,100 deferred income taxes (41 ) (41 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 71 84 41 38 234 debt and refinancing cost amortization 30 30 net (increase) decrease in working capital and other (1) (277 ) (311 ) 236 (88 ) 436 (4 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable (8 ) (1 ) (9 ) (18 ) interest income 123 123 interest expense (815 ) (815 ) income tax expense (984 ) (984 ) net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,126 $ 2,172 $ 2,884 $ 731 $ (1,776 ) $ 6,137 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net $ (389 ) $ (458 ) $ (326 ) $ (88 ) $ (11 ) $ (1,272 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 8 1 9 18 acquisition of customer accounts (adt dealer program) (328 ) (328 ) cash paid for purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities (10 ) (18 ) (14 ) (5 ) (47 ) voluntary pension contributions 82 25 8 115 (1) includes the add back of $1,013 million related to a loss on the retirement of debt. during 2005, 2004 and 2003 we paid out $161 million, $228 million and $499 million, respectively, in cash related to restructuring activities. see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our restructuring activities. we anticipate a cash outflow of approximately $50 million in 2006 related to restructuring activities in our electronics segment. during 2005, 2004 and 2003, tyco paid $328 million, $254 million and $597 million of cash, respectively, to acquire 0.4 million, 0.3 million and 0.6 million customer contracts for electronic security services through the adt dealer program. during 2005, 2004 and 2003, we paid $47 million, $105 million and $267 million, respectively, in cash for purchase accounting and holdback/earn-out liabilities. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price that is withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet. certain acquisitions have provisions which require tyco to make additional "earn-out" payments to the sellers if the acquired company achieves certain milestones subsequent to its acquisition by tyco. these earn-out payments are tied to certain performance measures, such as revenue, gross margin or earnings growth. at september 30, 2005 holdback/earn-out liabilities on our consolidated balance 51 sheets were $148 million, of which $79 million are included in accrued and other current liabilities and $69 million are included in other liabilities. at september 30, 2005, the acquisition liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets were $70 million, of which $24 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $46 million is included in other liabilities. during 2005, the company sold various businesses for aggregate net proceeds of $295 million of which $120 million relates to the tgn business. the purchaser of the tgn also assumed certain liabilities. in 2005, surgical, a division of tyco's healthcare segment, acquired vivant, a developer of microwave ablation medical technology. the transaction is valued at approximately $66 million cash, with up to approximately $35 million additional cash to be paid in the future based on the achievement of certain milestones. additionally, in november 2005, tyco's healthcare segment acquired a controlling interest in floreane medical implants, a manufacturer of surgical mesh products. both of these transactions strengthen healthcare's surgical product portfolio. we continue to fund capital expenditures to improve the cost structure of our businesses, to invest in new processes and technology, and to maintain high quality production standards. capital spending increased to $1.3 billion in 2005 from $1.0 billion in 2004. the level of capital expenditures is not expected to exceed depreciation in 2006 and is expected to increase slightly relative to the level of spending in 2005. the amount of income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the year was $790 million. during the first half of 2006, we expect cash outflows of approximately $500 million for resolution of certain previously accrued legal and legacy matters including a patent dispute in the healthcare segment, an sec enforcement action and certain holdback liabilities. capitalization shareholders' equity was $32.5 billion or $16.10 per share, at september 30, 2005, compared to $30.3 billion or $15.07 per share, at september 30, 2004. this increase was due primarily to net income of $3.0 billion and share options exercised of $351 million. these increases were partially offset by dividends declared of $805 million, the repurchase of shares of $300 million, and an increase in the minimum pension liability of $200 million, net of income taxes. at september 30, 2005, total debt decreased $4.0 billion to $12.6 billion, as compared to $16.6 billion at september 30, 2004. total debt as a percentage of total capitalization (total debt and shareholders' equity) was 28% at september 30, 2005 and 35% at september 30, 2004. the decrease in debt resulted principally from our repurchase of convertible debentures as discussed below ($2.0 billion) and scheduled repayments of debentures ($1.8 billion). our cash balance decreased to $3.2 billion at september 30, 2005, as compared to $4.5 billion at september 30, 2004. the decrease in cash was primarily due to the convertible debt repurchases and scheduled debt repayments referred to above. capital expenditures, and to a lesser extent, dividend payments and acquisition of customer accounts, also contributed to the cash decrease. furthermore, the company used $300 million of cash to repurchase shares in the open market in connection with the $1.5 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in july 2005. these decreases were partially offset by cash flows from operations. on december 16, 2004, tyco international group s.a., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company organized under the laws of luxembourg ("tigsa"), entered into a $1.0 billion 5-year revolving credit facility expiring on december 16, 2009. this facility replaced tigsa's $1.0 billion 364-day revolving credit facility, which was terminated prior to its scheduled expiration date of december 20, 2004. there 52 were no amounts outstanding under the 364-day revolving credit facility on the date of its termination. tigsa also holds a $1.5 billion 3-year revolving bank credit facility expiring on december 22, 2006 and a $500 million 3-year unsecured letter of credit facility expiring on june 15, 2007. at september 30, 2005, letters of credit in the amount of $488 million have been issued under the $500 million facility and a remaining $12 million is available for issuance. there were no amounts borrowed under any of these facilities. in 2005, the company repurchased $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 2.75% convertible senior debentures due 2018 with a 2008 put option for cash of $1.8 billion and $750 million aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 3.125% convertible senior debentures due 2023 with a 2015 put option for cash of $1.1 billion. these repurchases resulted in a $1.0 billion loss on the retirement of debt, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs, which is reflected in other expense, net, in the consolidated statement of income. we plan to use available cash to continue to fund internal growth and cost reduction opportunities within our businesses. additionally, we believe that our cash flow generation capability will allow us to continue to strengthen our balance sheet and return capital to shareholders. while debt reduction and share repurchases are our focus in the near term, we will also consider appropriate acquisitions should the opportunity arise. the company's bank credit agreements contain a number of financial covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and minimum levels of net worth, and limits on the incurrence of liens. at september 30, 2005, the company had two remaining synthetic lease facilities, of which one will expire in july of 2006, with other covenants, including interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company's outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. none of these covenants is presently considered restrictive to the company's operations. the company is currently in compliance with all of its debt covenants. in 2005, we made voluntary contributions to our pension plans totaling approximately $115 million. on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.0125 to $0.10 per share. as a result, dividend payments were $628 million in 2005 and are expected to approximate $800 million in 2006. the following table details the trend of our debt ratings: at september 30, 2005 at september 30, 2004 short term long term short term long term moody's prime-3 baa 3 prime-3 baa3 standard &amp; poor's a2 bbb+ a2 bbb fitch f2 bbb+ f2 bbb+ on august 3, 2005, standard &amp; poor's rating services raised the corporate credit and senior unsecured ratings for tyco international ltd. and subsidiaries to bbb+ from bbb. the security ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 53 commitments and contingencies contractual obligations a summary of our contractual obligations and commitments for debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and other obligations at september 30, 2005 is as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter debt (1) $ 1,954 $ 759 $ 1,383 $ 1,734 $ 19 $ 6,705 operating leases (2) 583 449 344 248 165 548 purchase obligations (3) 183 29 20 9 9 28 total contractual cash obligations (4) $ 2,720 $ 1,237 $ 1,747 $ 1,991 $ 193 $ 7,281 (1) includes capital lease obligations and excludes interest. (2) includes obligations under an off-balance sheet leasing arrangement under which a subsidiary of the company has the option to buy five cable laying sea vessels (see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements). (3) purchase obligations consist of commitments for purchases of good and services. (4) minimum pension funding requirements are not included as such amounts have not been determined for all periods presented. the minimum required contributions to our pension plans are expected to be approximately $118 million in 2006. at september 30, 2005, the company had outstanding letters of credit and letters of guarantee in the amount of $1.4 billion. at september 30, 2005, tigsa had unsecured credit facilities of $1.5 billion due december 22, 2006, and $1.0 billion due december 16, 2009, both of which were undrawn and available (see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, certain of the company's operating subsidiaries have overdraft and similar types of facilities, which total $605 million, of which $599 million was undrawn and available at september 30, 2005. these facilities expire at various dates through the year 2013, most of which are renewable and are established primarily within our international operations. at september 30, 2005, the company had a contingent purchase price liability of $80 million related to the 2001 acquisition of com-net by electronics. this represents the maximum amount payable to the former shareholders of com-net only after the construction and installation of a communications system for the state of florida is finished and the state has approved the system based on the guidelines set forth in the contract. a liability for this contingency has not been recorded in tyco's consolidated financial statements as the outcome of this contingency cannot be reasonably determined. in june 2004, tigsa entered into a $500 million 3-year unsecured letter of credit facility. the facility provides for the issuance of letters of credit, supported by a related line of credit facility. tigsa may only borrow under the line of credit agreement to reimburse the bank for obligations with respect to letters of credit issued under this facility. the covenants under this facility are substantially similar to tigsa's bank credit facilities entered into during december 2003 and the indenture related to tigsa's 6% notes due 2013 issued in november 2003. tigsa would pay interest on any outstanding borrowings at a variable interest rate, based on the bank's base rate or the eurodollar rate, as defined. upon the occurrence of certain credit events, the interest rate on the outstanding borrowings becomes fixed. the issuance of letters of credit under this facility during 2004 enabled the company to release approximately $480 million of restricted cash and investments. as of september 30, 2005, letters of credit in the amount of $488 million have been issued under the $500 million facility 54 and a remaining $12 million is available for issuance. there were no amounts borrowed under any of these facilities. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. legal matters class actions for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's securities class actions, shareholder derivative litigation, erisa litigation and investigation, and litigation against our former senior management, see item 3. legal proceedings. we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. investigation for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to governmental investigations related to tyco see item 3. legal proceedings subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities. we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government instrumentalities (which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss, or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. in 2005, the company recorded a charge of $50 million, which represents the company's best estimate of the amount in fines and penalties management believes the company will likely pay to resolve the matters raised in the sec's investigation. the company is engaged in discussions with the sec's division of enforcement to resolve the matters raised in the sec's investigation. final resolution of these matters is subject to a number of uncertainties, including finalizing the terms of a settlement that the enforcement staff will agree to recommend to the commission, the company's submission of an offer of settlement approved by the tyco board of directors, and the commission's approval of the settlement offer. until such events have occurred, the charge is subject to change. intellectual property litigation for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's intellectual property litigation, see item 3. legal proceedings intellectual property litigation. environmental matters for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's environmental matters, see item 1. business environmental matters. 55 asbestos matters tyco and some of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. consistent with the national trend of increased asbestos-related litigation, the company has observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits in the past several years. the majority of these cases have been filed against subsidiaries in healthcare and engineered products and services. a limited number of the cases allege premises liability, based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos while on a subsidiary's property. a majority of the cases involve product liability claims, based principally on allegations of past distribution of heat-resistant industrial products incorporating asbestos or the past distribution of industrial valves that incorporated asbestos-containing gaskets or packing. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. tyco's involvement in asbestos cases has been limited because its subsidiaries did not mine or produce asbestos. furthermore, in the company's experience, a large percentage of these claims were never substantiated and have been dismissed by the courts. the company will continue to vigorously defend these lawsuits and the company has not suffered an adverse verdict in a trial court proceeding related to asbestos claims. when appropriate, the company settles claims; however, the total amount paid to date to settle and defend all asbestos claims has been immaterial. as of september 30, 2005, there were approximately 14,000 asbestos liability cases pending against the company and its subsidiaries. during the 2005, the company undertook a detailed study of its pending asbestos claims and also developed an estimate of asbestos claims that were incurred but not reported, as well as related insurance and indemnification recoveries. the impact of this study was not material to the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company's estimate of the liability for pending and future claims is based on claim experience over the past five years and covers claims expected to be filed through 2012. the company believes that it has adequate amounts recorded related to these matters. while it is not possible at this time to determine with certainty the ultimate outcome of these asbestos-related proceedings, the company believes that the final outcome of all known and anticipated future claims, after taking into account its substantial indemnification rights and insurance coverage, will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. income taxes tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various regulatory tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the united states internal revenue service, have raised issues and proposed tax deficiencies. the company is reviewing the issues raised by the tax authorities and is contesting certain of the proposed tax deficiencies. amounts related to these tax deficiencies and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as applicable. the american jobs creation act of 2004 (the "ajca"), signed into law in october 2004, replaces an export incentive with a deduction from domestic manufacturing income. it is not expected that the ajca will have a material impact on the company's income tax provision. the ajca also allows the company to repatriate up to $500 million of permanently reinvested foreign earnings in 2006 at an effective tax rate of 5.25%. this incentive would apply to the company's u.s. owned controlled foreign companies. the company continues to review whether to take advantage of this provision of the ajca. 56 compliance matters in 2003 an allegation was brought to our attention that during the period from 1999 through 2003 certain improper payments were made by a non-u.s. subsidiary of tyco with 2004 revenue of $40 million. with the assistance of outside counsel, we conducted an internal investigation into this allegation to determine whether certain payments were correctly recorded in the books and records of the subsidiary. we have taken remedial steps and have reported the results of our investigation to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec. we are cooperating with their inquiries. on march 29, 2005 and august 9, 2005, tyco reported to the doj and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it has taken in response to a number of recent allegations of improper payments. tyco also informed the doj and the sec that it has retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, that it would continue to make periodic progress reports to them, and that it would present its factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. at this time, tyco cannot predict the outcome of its disclosures of these matters reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of any or all of these matters. other matters the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. backlog at september 30, 2005, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $13.6 billion, compared to a backlog of $13.0 billion at september 30, 2004. we expect that approximately 75% of our backlog at september 30, 2005 will be filled during 2006. backlog by reportable industry segment at september 30 is as follows ($ in millions): 2005 2004 fire and security $ 6,732 $ 6,726 engineered products and services 4,007 3,469 electronics 2,591 2,454 healthcare 272 280 corporate and other (1) 120 $ 13,602 $ 13,049 (1) 2004 includes the tgn business which was classified as held for sale at september 30, 2004 and sold during 2005. within fire and security, backlog remained flat in part due to increased bookings within fire protection in north america, offset by the continued recognition of deferred revenues on leased security systems as a result of the transition to a direct-consumer sales model in 2003. backlog for fire and security includes recurring revenue-in-force, which represents twelve months' fees for monitoring and maintenance services under contract in the security business. the amount of recurring revenue-in-force at september 30, 2005 and september 30, 2004 was $3,550 million and $3,559 million, respectively. within engineered products and services, backlog increased at infrastructure services as a result of projects in venezuela and canada, as well as expanding sectors in flow control asia and north america. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates also contributed to the increase. 57 within electronics, backlog increased primarily due to stronger orders from improving business conditions across the majority of its end markets. backlog in healthcare represents unfilled orders, which, in the nature of the businesses, are normally shipped shortly after purchase orders are received. we do not view backlog in healthcare to be a significant indicator of the level of future sales activity. off-balance sheet arrangements sale of accounts receivable tyco utilized several programs under which it sold participating interests in accounts receivable to investors who, in turn, purchased and received ownership and security interests in those receivables. as collections reduced accounts receivable included in the pool, the company sold new receivables. the company retained the risk of credit loss on the receivables and, accordingly, the full amount of the reserve was retained on the consolidated balance sheets. the proceeds from the sales were used to repay short-term and long-term borrowings and for working capital and other corporate purposes and were reported as operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the sale proceeds were less than the face amount of accounts receivable sold by an amount that approximated the cost that would have been incurred if commercial paper had been issued backed by these accounts receivable. the discount from the face amount is accounted for as a loss on the sale of receivables and has been included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. such discount aggregated $18 million and $29 million, or 3.1% and 3.5% of the weighted-average balance of the receivables outstanding, during 2004 and 2003, respectively. the company retained collection and administrative responsibilities for the participating interests in the defined pool. during 2004, the company reduced outstanding balances under its accounts receivable programs by $929 million, of which $812 million related to three of its corporate accounts receivable programs which were terminated in 2005. no amounts were utilized under these programs at september 30, 2004 and through the date of termination. the remaining reduction of $117 million related to certain of the company's international businesses selling fewer accounts receivable as a short-term financing mechanism. these transactions qualify as true sales. the aggregate amount outstanding under international accounts receivable programs was $80 million and $99 million at september 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. variable interest entities the company has programs under which it sells machinery and equipment to investors who, in turn, purchase and receive ownership and security interests in those assets. as such, the company may have certain investments in those affiliated companies whereby it provides varying degrees of financial support and where the investors are entitled to a share in the results of those entities but do not consolidate these entities. while these entities may be substantive operating companies, they have been evaluated for potential consolidation under fin no. 46. the company had three synthetic lease programs utilized, to some extent, by all of the company's segments to finance capital expenditures for manufacturing machinery and equipment and for ships used by tyco submarine telecommunications. during 2003 the company restructured one of the synthetic leases to meet the requirements of fin no. 46 for off-balance sheet accounting. in 2003 in conjunction with adopting fin no. 46, the company also evaluated other investments and concluded that four joint ventures that were previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting within tyco infrastructure services, in which we own a minority interest, met the consolidation criteria set forth in fin no. 46. accordingly, these ventures were consolidated onto the company's balance sheet effective july 1, 2003, and were subsequently deconsolidated as of march 31, 2004 upon the adoption of fin no. 46r. 58 guarantees certain of the company's business segments have guaranteed the performance of third-parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. the terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from 2006 through the completion of such transactions. the guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. the company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. however, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows. the company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. see item i. business environmental matters for a discussion of these liabilities. the company has guaranteed the fair value of certain vessels not to exceed $235 million, and as of september 30, 2005 expects the obligation to be $54 million, which is recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet, based on its estimate of the fair value of the vessels (see "liquidity and capital resources contractual obligations" above). in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company generally records estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty, see notes 1 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements. accounting pronouncements in september 2004, the emerging issues task force ("eitf") of the financial accounting standards board ("fasb") reached a consensus on eitf no. 04-8, " the effect of contingently convertible instruments on diluted earnings per share ." this eitf requires that contingently convertible debt securities with a market price trigger be included in diluted earnings per share, regardless of whether the market price trigger has been met. eitf no. 04-8 became effective for tyco on october 1, 2004 and required retroactive restatement of previously reported earnings per share. the adoption of this eitf did not impact diluted earnings per share for any period presented. in november 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 151, " inventory costs , an amendment of arb no. 43, chapter 4." sfas no. 151 amends accounting research bulletin ("arb") no. 43, chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges. in addition, sfas no. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overhead to inventory be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. sfas no. 151 will be effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 for tyco. the adoption of sfas no. 151 is not expected to have a significant impact on the company's results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. 59 in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123r which requires all share-based payments to employees to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. sfas no. 123r replaces sfas no. 123, " accounting for stock-based compensation ," and supersedes accounting principles board opinion no. 25 ("apb opinion no. 25"), " accounting for stock issued to employees ." effective october 1, 2005, tyco adopted the provisions of sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective method. under this method compensation expense is recorded for all unvested options over the related vesting period beginning in the quarter of adoption. the company previously applied the intrinsic value based method prescribed in apb opinion no. 25 in accounting for employee stock-based compensation. upon adoption of sfas no. 123r, the company will recognize stock-based compensation costs ratably over the service period, which is the earlier of the retirement eligibility date, if the grant contains provisions such that the award becomes fully vested upon retirement, or the stated vesting period. for grants issued to retirement eligible employees prior to the adoption of sfas no. 123r, the company will recognize compensation costs over the stated vesting period with acceleration of any unrecognized compensation costs if and when an employee elects to retire. this statement also amends sfas no. 95, " statement of cash flows ," to require that excess tax benefits be reflected as financing cash inflows rather than operating cash inflows. the impact of the adoption of sfas no. 123r is estimated to result in a compensation charge for fiscal year 2006 in the range of approximately $0.06 to $0.07 per diluted share. in march 2005, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin ("sab") no. 107 regarding the staff's interpretation of sfas no. 123r. this interpretation provides the staff's views regarding interactions between sfas no. 123r and certain sec rules and regulations and provides interpretations of the valuation of share-based payments for public companies. the interpretive guidance is intended to assist companies in applying the provisions of sfas no. 123r and investors and users of the financial statements in analyzing the information provided. the company will follow the guidance prescribed in sab no. 107 in connection with its adoption of sfas no. 123r. in march 2005, the fasb issued interpretation ("fin") no. 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143 ." this interpretation clarifies the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with an asset retirement when the timing and (or) method of settling the obligation are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. fin no. 47 is effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after december 15, 2005. the company is currently assessing the impact that fin no. 47 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. in june 2005, the fasb issued staff position ("fsp") no. 143-1, "accounting for electronic equipment waste obligations," which provides guidance on accounting for historical waste obligations associated with the european union waste, electrical and electronic equipment directive ("weee directive"). fsp no. 143-1 is effective for the first reporting period ending after june 8, 2005 or the date of the adoption of the weee directive into law by the applicable european union member country. because european union member countries have not yet, among other steps, (i) fully enacted their national laws relating to weee, (ii) completed implementation of their administrative measures and programs, (iii) clarified the scope of products considered weee, and/or (iv) established pricing for recycling of weee, the company can not at this time reasonably estimate the effect of applying this guidance in future periods. the company continues to monitor weee developments in the respective eu countries in an effort to reflect the impact of this directive. 60 forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the sec, or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, product expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures or other matters, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions; the demand for tyco's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which tyco competes; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigation and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management; effect of income tax audit settlements; the ratings on our debt and our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including foreign currency rate fluctuations; availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials, including steel and resin; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and six sigma initiatives; potential further impairment of our goodwill and/or our long-lived assets; the impact of fluctuations in the price of tyco common shares; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. government regulations in general, and in particular changes in rules and regulations regarding the safety, efficacy, sales, promotions, insurance reimbursement and pricing of tyco's disposable medical products and other specialty products, as well as changes in rules and regulations regarding the retirement and disposal of certain electrical products; the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the u.s. that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco's incorporation in bermuda or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its incorporation in bermuda; and the potential distraction costs associated with negative publicity relating to actions of our former senior corporate management. 61 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in order to manage the volatility relating to our more significant market risks, we enter into forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency swaps, foreign currency options, and interest rate swaps. we do not anticipate any material changes in our primary market risk exposures in 2006. we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross-border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows, are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. interest rate sensitivity the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including debt obligations and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of principal repayment and weighted-average interest rates. for interest rate and cross-currency swaps, the table presents notional amounts at the current market price rate and weighted average interest rates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. the amounts included in the table below are in u.s. dollars, unless noted ($ in millions): 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value total debt: fixed rate (us$) 1,914 13 1,351 800 5 5,757 9,840 10,637 average interest rate 6.0 % 10.5 % 3.1 % 6.1 % 6.3 % 6.1 % fixed rate (euro) 5 725 2 825 2 8 1,567 1,641 average interest rate 4.4 % 6.1 % 7.6 % 5.5 % 8.5 % 6.9 % fixed rate (yen) 4 3 2 1 53 63 63 average interest rate 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 5.0 % fixed rate (british pound) 872 872 945 average interest rate 6.5 % fixed rate (other) 7 6 4 2 2 6 27 27 average interest rate 5.4 % 5.5 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 17.8 % 1.1 % variable rate (us$) 9 1 10 94 7 2 123 123 average interest rate (1) 3.7 % 5.8 % 13.3 % 7.7 % 12.1 % 6.9 % variable rate (euro) 10 11 13 11 45 45 average interest rate (1) 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 3.5 % variable rate (other) 5 1 1 1 1 8 17 17 average interest rate (1) 6.1 % 12.7 % 13.2 % 13.2 % 13.2 % 13.2 % cross currency swap: british pound to usd 350 350 70 average pay rate (1) 5.9 % average receive rate 6.5 % interest rate swaps: fixed to variable (us$) 2,750 2,750 10 average pay rate (1) 5.7 % average receive rate 6.3 % fixed to variable (british pound) 350 350 10 average pay rate (1) 5.9 % average receive rate 6.5 % (1) weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates at september 30, 2005 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial instruments. exchange rate sensitivity the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. these instruments include debt obligations and forward foreign currency exchange contracts. for debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of principal repayment and 62 weighted-average interest rates. for forward foreign currency exchange contracts, the table presents notional amounts and weighted-average contractual exchange rates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. the amounts included in the table below are in u.s. dollars, unless noted ($ in millions): 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed rate (euro) 5 725 2 825 2 8 1,567 1,641 average interest rate 4.4 % 6.1 % 7.6 % 5.5 % 8.6 % 6.9 % fixed rate (yen) 4 3 2 1 53 63 63 average interest rate 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % fixed rate (british pound) 872 872 945 average interest rate 6.5 % fixed rate (other) 7 6 4 2 2 6 27 27 average interest rate 5.4 % 5.5 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 17.8 % 1.1 % variable rate (euro) 10 11 13 11 45 45 average interest rate (1) 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 3.5 % variable rate (other) 5 1 1 1 1 8 17 17 average interest rate (1) 6.1 % 12.7 % 13.2 % 13.2 % 13.2 % 13.2 % forward contracts: pay us$/receive euro 2,347 2,347 (94 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.25 pay us$/receive yen 678 678 (29 ) average contractual exchange rate 106.37 pay us$/receive british pound 533 533 (2 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.77 pay us$/receive singapore dollar 248 248 (6 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.65 pay us$/receive australian dollar 238 238 (2 ) average contractual exchange rate 0.76 pay us$/receive swiss francs 161 161 (2 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.27 pay us$/receive hong kong dollar 153 153 average contractual exchange rate 7.77 pay us$/receive mexican peso 103 103 average contractual exchange rate 10.95 pay us$/receive south korean won 66 66 (1 ) average contractual exchange rate 1,013.40 pay us$/receive new zealand dollars 62 62 average contractual exchange rate 0.68 pay yen/receive euro 51 51 average contractual exchange rate 135.04 pay us$/receive swedish krona 48 48 (1 ) average contractual exchange rate 7.56 pay us$/receive hungary forint 35 35 (1 ) average contractual exchange rate 202.57 pay us$/receive denmark kroner 33 33 average contractual exchange rate 6.12 pay us$/receive canada dollars 29 29 4 average contractual exchange rate 1.20 pay us$/receive polish zloty 17 17 average contractual exchange rate 3.25 pay australian dollar/receive euro 17 17 average contractual exchange rate 1.60 pay us$/receive norwegian krone 14 14 average contractual exchange rate 6.53 pay euro/receive british pounds 14 14 1 average contractual exchange rate 0.70 pay us$/receive malaysian ringgit 13 13 average contractual exchange rate 3.76 pay polish zloty/receive euro 11 11 (1 ) average contractual exchange rate 4.22 pay thai baht/receive us$ 9 9 average contractual exchange rate 41.32 pay czech koruna/receive us$ 7 7 average contractual exchange rate 24.48 pay swedish krona/receive euro 6 6 average contractual exchange rate 9.21 pay south african rand/receive euro 5 5 average contractual exchange rate 8.22 (1) weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates at september 30, 2005 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial instruments. in addition to the forward foreign currency exchange contracts presented in the table above, the company held forward contracts in 14 different currency pairs, with individual notional amounts that are not material. 63risk factors 12 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. risks relating to the proposed separation the cost to complete the transaction could be significant. management estimates that the total net economic cost to complete the proposed separation is expected to approximate $1.0 billion and that the corresponding income statement charges would be larger than net economic cost. however, actual costs could exceed that estimate and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to complete the transaction. there is no guarantee that the proposed separation will be finalized. completion of the proposed separation is subject to a number of factors and conditions, including: changes in business, political and economic conditions in the u.s. and in other countries in which the company currently operates; changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies; changes in operating performance of the company; required changes to existing financings, and changes in credit ratings, including those that may result from the proposed separation; the company's ability to obtain the financing necessary to consummate the proposed separation; and the company's ability to satisfy certain conditions precedent, including final approval by the tyco board of directors, receipt of certain tax rulings, necessary opinions of counsel and the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the sec. 12 increased demands on our management team as a result of the proposed separation could distract management's attention from operating the business. management expects to file registration statements in connection with the proposed separation during the second quarter of 2007. the complexity of the transaction will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources, as well as the use of several cross-functional project teams. our business or results of operations may be adversely affected during the transition period. each of the independent companies resulting from the completion of the proposed separation may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect will be achieved from the separation transactions. each of the independent companies may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect will result from the separation of two of tyco's segments into independent companies or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. for example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will regard the corporate structures of each of the independent companies as more clear and simple than the current tyco corporate structure or place a greater value on the sum of each of the independent companies as compared to tyco. if certain internal restructuring transactions and the distribution relating to the proposed separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we anticipate that certain internal restructuring transactions will be undertaken in preparation for the proposed separation. these transactions are complex and could cause us to incur significant tax liabilities. we have an initial private letter ruling regarding these transactions and the distribution from the irs noting that they qualify for favorable tax treatment. we have also requested or may request supplemental rulings regarding these transactions and, in addition, we expect to obtain an opinion of tax counsel confirming the favorable tax treatment of these transactions. the ruling and the opinion rely or will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings, from us regarding the past and future conduct of our businesses and other matters. if any of these are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, then we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal restructuring transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or if the distributions should become taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership after the distribution. risks relating to actions of tyco's former senior corporate management pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco, some members of our former senior corporate management, current and former members of our board of directors and our current chief executive officer, former chief financial officer and current general counsel are named defendants in a number of purported class actions alleging violations of certain disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. tyco, certain of our current and former employees, some members of our former senior corporate management and some former members of the board of directors of tyco international (us), inc. also are named as defendants in several erisa class actions. we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda 13 law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. continued scrutiny resulting from ongoing governmental investigations may have an adverse effect on our business. we and others have received subpoenas and requests from the sec, the united states department of labor, the general service administration and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. certain current and former employees in fire and security received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices regarding the adt dealer connect fees. as previously reported in our periodic filings, these practices have been discontinued. the united states department of labor is investigating tyco and the administrators of certain of our benefit plans. at this time, we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government instrumentalities (which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot provide assurance that the effects and results of these or other investigations will not be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the irs, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the united states irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. in connection with the irs audits for the years 1997 through 2000, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to its 1997 through 2000 u.s. federal income tax returns. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. these adjustments did not have a material impact on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the company. during 2006, the company has developed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that 14 acceptance of these adjustments is probable and accordingly has recorded them in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash and our cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. in making this estimate, we have not assumed the need to make any material payments in connection with our pending litigation or investigations. any material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. additional negative publicity may adversely affect our business. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco was the subject of continuing negative publicity focusing on these actions. this negative publicity contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities in 2002 and brought increased regulatory scrutiny upon us. additional negative publicity related to former senior corporate management's actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and the market price of our publicly traded securities. our senior corporate management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from actions of prior management. we replaced our senior corporate executives with a new team during 2002 through 2004, and all of the former members of our board of directors determined not to stand for reelection in march 2003. a new board of directors was elected at our annual general meeting of shareholders in march 2003. we cannot provide assurance that this major restructuring of our board of directors and senior 15 management team, and the accompanying distractions related to matters arising from the actions of prior management will not adversely affect our results of operations. risks relating to our businesses cyclical industry and economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our operating results in some of our segments are affected adversely by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which they operate. for example, demand for the products and services of fire and security and engineered products and services is significantly affected by levels of commercial construction and consumer and business discretionary spending. also, the electronic components business within electronics is heavily dependent on the end markets it serves and therefore can be affected by the demand patterns of these markets, which could impact the margins in this business. this cyclical impact can be amplified because some of our businesses purchase products from other of our businesses. for example, fire and security purchases certain products sold by engineered products and services. therefore, a drop in demand for our fire prevention products due to lower new residential or office construction or other factors can cause a drop in demand for certain of our products sold by engineered products and services. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. there can be no assurances that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and /or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: radioactive materials decontamination and decommissioning; solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and 16 oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs (including asset retirement obligations of $111 million) of approximately $295 million, of which $34 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $261 million is included in other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures, the proposed separation plan and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. future impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. in addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholders' equity, increasing our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio. such reduction in consolidated net worth and increase in debt as a percentage of total capitalization could result in a default under our credit facilities. foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see part ii item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2006 was 51.2% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of steel in the united states. we are also a large buyer of other commodities, including resin, copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass 17 on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are named as a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. in addition, our healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the united states food and drug administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead, and have led, to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. our adt business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our worldwide electronic security services business were 13.8%, 14.8% and 15.1% on a trailing 12-month basis as of september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. although the attrition rate has been declining, if attrition rates were to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial account pools are similarly amortized. if the attrition rates were to rise tyco may be required to accelerate the amortization of the costs which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. tyco and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, asia, india, latin america and europe. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits or other monies, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. from time to time tyco obtains or receives information alleging improper conduct of tyco employees, agents, and/or distributors, including conduct involving potentially improper payments to foreign government officials. tyco's policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, taking remedial control measures and reporting its findings to relevant law enforcement authorities. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of liens. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. certain downgrades by moody's and s&amp;p may increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. 19 risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. in addition, the u.s. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. we are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the financial impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. tax legislation the united states congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. in october 2004, the united states congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. legislation passed by the u.s. senate on november 18, 2005 would modify parts of the american jobs creation act of 2004, but would not retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we expect various u.s. treasury department studies to be released and tax proposals to be introduced in the united states congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have adverse effects on tyco if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers 20 based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2006 was 51.2% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of steel in the united states. we are also a large buyer of other commodities, including resin, copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass 17 on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are named as a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. in addition, our healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the united states food and drug administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead, and have led, to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. our adt business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our worldwide electronic security services business were 13.8%, 14.8% and 15.1% on a trailing 12-month basis as of september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. although the attrition rate has been declining, if attrition rates were to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial account pools are similarly amortized. if the attrition rates were to rise tyco may be required to accelerate the amortization of the costs which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. tyco and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, asia, india, latin america and europe. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits or other monies, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. from time to time tyco obtains or receives information alleging improper conduct of tyco employees, agents, and/or distributors, including conduct involving potentially improper payments to foreign government officials. tyco's policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, taking remedial control measures and reporting its findings to relevant law enforcement authorities. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of liens. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. certain downgrades by moody's and s&amp;p may increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. 19 risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. in addition, the u.s. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. we are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the financial impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. tax legislation the united states congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. in october 2004, the united states congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. legislation passed by the u.s. senate on november 18, 2005 would modify parts of the american jobs creation act of 2004, but would not retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we expect various u.s. treasury department studies to be released and tax proposals to be introduced in the united states congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have adverse effects on tyco if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers 20 based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties our operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world aggregating approximately 107 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately 58 million square feet are owned and approximately 49 million square feet are leased. these facilities house manufacturing, distribution and warehousing operations, as well as sales and marketing, engineering and administrative offices. fire and security operates through a network of offices located in north america, central america, south america, europe, the middle east, the asia-pacific region and south africa. our fire and security manufacturing facilities are located in north america, europe and asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 18 million square feet, of which 4 million square feet are owned and 14 million square feet are leased. electronics has manufacturing facilities in north america, central and south america, europe, asia and australia. the group occupies approximately 31 million square feet, of which 20 million square feet are owned and 11 million square feet are leased. healthcare has manufacturing facilities in north america, europe, the middle east and asia. the group occupies approximately 22 million square feet, of which 13 million square feet are owned and 9 million square feet are leased. engineered products and services has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, europe, the asia-pacific region and central and south america. the group occupies approximately 36 million square feet, of which 21 million square feet are owned and 15 million square feet are leased. 21 in the opinion of management, our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. we do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. see note 18 to consolidated financial statements for a description of our lease obligations. item 3. legal proceedings securities class actions as previously reported in our 2005 form 10-k, tyco and certain of our former directors and officers have been named as defendants in over 40 securities class actions. most of the securities class actions have now been transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings. on january 28, 2003, a consolidated securities class action complaint was filed in these proceedings. on january 7, 2005, the company answered the plaintiffs' consolidated complaint. on january 14, 2005, lead plaintiffs made a motion for class certification, which the company opposed on july 22, 2005. on july 5, 2005, the company moved for revision of the court's october 14, 2004 order in light of a change in law, insofar as the order denied the company's motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint for failure to plead loss causation. on december 2, 2005, the court denied the company's motion. on april 4, 2006 plaintiffs filed a partial motion for summary judgment that was denied without prejudice to its later renewal. on june 12, 2006, the court entered an order certifying a class "consisting of all persons and entities who purchased or otherwise acquired tyco securities between december 13, 1999 and june 7, 2002, and who were damaged thereby, excluding defendants, all of the officers, directors and partners thereof, members of their immediate families and their legal representatives, heirs, successors or assigns, and any entity in which any of the foregoing have or had a controlling interest." on june 26, 2006, tyco filed a petition for leave to appeal the class certification order to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit. separately, on september 22, 2006, the united states court of appeals for the first circuit denied tyco's petition. on july 6, 2006, the lead plaintiffs filed in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire a motion for a permanent injunction against prosecution of the class action styled brazen v. tyco international ltd. that was certified by the circuit court for cook county, illinois. on october 26, 2006, the court denied plaintiffs' motion for injunction release without prejudice. as previously reported in our periodic filings, a class action complaint, ezra charitable trust v. tyco international ltd. , was filed in the united states district court for the southern district of florida on may 28, 2003. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. thereafter, the company moved to dismiss the complaint. on december 22, 2004, plaintiff moved to amend the complaint. the proposed amendment asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder against tyco international ltd. and edward breen, our current chief executive officer, and seeks to add as defendants david fitzpatrick, our former chief financial officer, and pricewaterhousecoopers llp, our former independent auditors. as against defendants breen and fitzpatrick, the complaint asserts a cause of action under section 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934. on march 25, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire granted plaintiff's motion to amend. plaintiff filed an amended complaint that day. on march 28, 2005, the court denied defendants' motion to dismiss the original complaint, without prejudice to the defendants' ability to move against the amended complaint. on april 25, 2005, defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated amended class action complaint. on september 2, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire entered a memorandum and order dismissing the amended complaint. on october 18, 2005, plaintiff filed a notice to appeal in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on september 27, 2006, the united states 22 court of appeals for the first circuit affirmed the district court's dismissal of the amended class action complaint. as previously reported in our periodic filings, an action entitled hess v. tyco international ltd., et al., was filed on june 3, 2004 in the superior court of the state of california for the county of los angeles against certain of our former directors and officers, our former auditors and tyco. on october 25, 2006, the court lifted its previous order staying the case during the pendency of a related arbitration to which tyco was not a party. now that the stay has been lifted, tyco intends to ask the court to dismiss the action. as previously reported in our periodic filings, the united states district court for the district of new jersey granted one plaintiff's motion for appointment as lead plaintiff in stumpf v. tyco international ltd., an action originally filed on july 28, 2003 and o'loughlin v. tyco international ltd., an action originally filed on september 26, 2003. on december 13, 2004, lead plaintiff mark newby filed a consolidated securities class action complaint purporting to represent a class of purchasers of tycom securities between july 26, 2000 and december 17, 2001. plaintiff names as defendants tyco international ltd., tycom, ltd., goldman sachs &amp; co., merrill lynch, pierce, fenner &amp; smith, incorporated and citigroup inc., (the "underwriters") along with certain former tyco and tycom executives. the complaint asserts causes of action under sections 11 and 15 of the securities act of 1933 and under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder against tyco, tycom, goldman sachs, merrill lynch, citigroup and certain former tyco and tycom executives. the complaint alleges the tycom registration statement and prospectus relating to the sale of tycom securities were inaccurate, misleading and failed to disclose facts necessary to make the registration statement and prospectus not misleading. further, the complaint alleges the defendants violated securities laws by making materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, executive compensation, tyco's and tycom's finances and tycom's business prospects. on february 18, 2005, the company moved to dismiss the consolidated securities class action complaint. on september 2, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire granted in part and denied in part the company's motion to dismiss. the court granted the company's motion to dismiss allegations that the tycom registration statement and prospectus were misleading to the extent that they failed to disclose alleged looting of tyco by former senior executives, accounting fraud, analyst conflicts and the participation by james brennan in the offering, because plaintiffs failed to plead that those alleged omissions were disclosed during the class period, with a resultant drop in the value of tycom stock. however, the court denied the company's motion to dismiss with respect to other allegations. on september 19, 2005, plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration of the court's september 2, 2005 ruling with respect to goldman sachs &amp; co., merrill lynch, pierce, fenner &amp; smith, incorporated and citigroup inc. on january 6, 2006, the court held that the goldman sachs &amp; co., merrill lynch, pierce, fenner &amp; smith, incorporated and citigroup inc. should remain in the case on the claim concerning tycom's business prospects, but that the section 11 claim related to alleged looting of tyco by former senior executives was dismissed as to both the tyco defendants and the underwriters because the affirmative defense of lack of loss causation was apparent on the face of the complaint. on january 13, 2006, tyco international ltd. and tycom answered the consolidated securities class action complaint. on march 8, 2006, the plaintiff filed a motion for class certification. that motion has been fully briefed and is still pending. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on november 27, 2002 the state of new jersey, on behalf of several state pension funds, filed a complaint, new jersey v. tyco , in the united states district court for the district of new jersey against tyco, our former auditors and certain of our former officers and directors. on february 11, 2005, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint against tyco, our former auditors, and certain of our former directors and officers. as against all defendants, the amended complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 23 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, for common law fraud, aiding and abetting common law fraud, conspiracy to commit fraud and negligent misrepresentation. claims are asserted against the individual defendants under section 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, section 15 of the securities act of 1933, section 24(d) of the new jersey uniform securities law, sections 421-b:25(ii) &amp; (iii) of the new hampshire uniform securities law, and for breaches of fiduciary duties. claims are also asserted against certain of the individual defendants under section 20a of the securities exchange act of 1934, and for violation of the new jersey rico statute; against tyco under section 12(a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, section 24(c) of the new jersey uniform securities law, and for violation of, aiding and abetting violation of, and vicarious liability under the new jersey rico statute; against tyco and certain of the individual defendants under section 14(a) of the securities act of 1933 and rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder, and for conspiracy to violate the new jersey rico statute; against tyco, our former auditors, and certain of the individual defendants under section 11 of the securities act of 1933, and for violation of, and conspiracy to violate the new jersey rico statute; and against our former auditors and certain of the individual defendants for aiding and abetting violation of the new jersey rico statute. finally, claims are asserted against the individual defendants and our former auditors for aiding and abetting the individual defendants' breaches of fiduciary duties. the second amended complaint asserts that the defendants violated the securities laws and otherwise engaged in fraudulent acts by making materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, the following: unauthorized and improper compensation of certain of our former executives; their improper use of our funds for personal benefit and their improper self-dealing in real estate. on june 10, 2005, the company moved to dismiss in part the second amended complaint, which motion remains pending before the court. as previously reported in our periodic filings, the company appealed to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit the decision of the united states district court for the district of new hampshire to remand brazen v. tyco international ltd. to the circuit court for cook county, illinois and hromyak v. tyco international ltd., goldfarb v. tyco international ltd., mandel v. tyco international ltd., myers v. tyco international ltd., rappold v. tyco international ltd., and schuldt v. tyco international ltd. to the circuit court for palm beach county, florida. plaintiffs moved to dismiss the company's appeal. on december 29, 2004, the united states court of appeals for the first circuit granted plaintiffs' motion and dismissed the company's appeal. on april 28, 2005, the company moved in the circuit court for palm beach county, florida to stay and to strike the class allegations in goldfarb , mandel , myers , rappold , and schuldt . also on april 28, 2005, the company moved in the circuit court for palm beach county, florida to dismiss hromyak . on july 8, 2005, the court granted in part and denied in part the motion to stay and to strike the class allegations in goldfarb , mandel , myers , rappold , and schuldt . on august 23, 2005, the circuit court granted tyco's motion to dismiss hromyak . the hromyak plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal on september 20, 2005 and briefing has been completed. on december 6, 2006, the florida district court of appeal affirmed the dismissal. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on march 10, 2005, plaintiff lionel i. brazen filed an amended class action complaint in the circuit court for cook county, illinois purporting to represent a class of purchasers who exchanged shares of mallinckrodt, inc. common stock for shares of tyco common stock pursuant to the joint proxy statement and prospectus, and the registration statement in which it was included, in connection with the october 17, 2000 merger of tyco and mallinckrodt, inc. plaintiff names as defendants tyco international ltd., and certain former tyco executives and asserts causes of action under section 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the securities act of 1933. the amended class action complaint alleges that the defendants made statements in the registration statement and the joint proxy statement and prospectus that were materially false and misleading and failed to disclose material adverse facts regarding the business and operations of tyco. on april 21, 2005, the company moved in the circuit court for cook county, illinois to dismiss or stay or, in the alternative, to strike the class allegations. on july 22, 2005, the court denied the company's motion. also, on july 22, 2005, the court granted the motion to dismiss individual defendants michael a. 24 ashcroft, joshua m. berman, richard s. bodman, john f. fort, iii, stephen w. foss, james s. pasman jr., w. peter slusser and frank e. walsh, jr. on august 2, 2005, tyco filed a motion for a finding pursuant to supreme court rule 308(a), which was denied on august 16, 2005. on august 19, 2005, tyco filed an interlocutory appeal of the circuit court for cook county illinois' july 22, 2005 memorandum and order. on december 27, 2005, the appellate court of illinois, first judicial district, denied tyco's interlocutory appeal. on january 31, 2006, the company filed a petition for leave to appeal the decision of the appellate court, but that petition was denied. on january 6, 2006, the plaintiff filed a renewed motion for class certification which was granted. on february 14, 2006, tyco filed its answer to the complaint. on july 5, 2006, plaintiffs filed a partial motion for summary judgment which was denied on november 8, 2006. on november 22, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion to reconsider the denial of their motion for summary judgment. briefing is ongoing. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on april 29, 2005, an action was filed against tyco in the united states district court for the southern district of florida, stevenson v. tyco international ltd., et. al. plaintiff names as additional defendants our current chief executive officer, edward breen, our former chief financial officer, david fitzpatrick, our current executive vice president and general counsel, william lytton, current members of tyco's board of directors including dennis blair, bruce gordon, john krol, carl mccall, mackey mcdonald, brendan o'neill, sandra wijnberg, and jerome york, as well as former members of tyco's board of directors, including michael ashcroft, joshua berman, richard bodman, john fort, steven foss, wendy lane, james pasman, peter slusser and joseph welch. the complaint asserts causes of action under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. the complaint alleges that defendants made material misrepresentations that resulted in artificially deflated stock prices. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on january 31, 2003 a civil action was filed in the united states district court for the district of new jersey, cirella v. tyco international et al . plaintiff names as defendants tyco international ltd., dennis kozlowski, mark h. swartz and mark a. belnick. plaintiff philip m. cirella alleges that he was a shareholder in cit who received common shares of tyco when it acquired cit in 2000, and later purchased additional tyco shares with marguerite cirella. plaintiffs assert a cause of action against all defendants for violation of section 10(b) and rule 10b-5 of the securities exchange act of 1934 and a cause of action against the individual defendants for violation of section 20(a) of the exchange act. the complaint alleges that the defendants failed to disclose related-party transactions, including the following: providing interest free loans, forgiving personal loans, purchasing personal properties, using company funds to purchase personal items, selling individual tyco shares while concealing information from investors, and failing to disclose an ongoing criminal investigation of kozlowski, all of which resulted in an artificially inflated share price. plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and costs against all defendants and punitive exemplary damages against the individual defendants. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. as previously reported in our periodic filings, an action was filed on january 20, 2004 in the united states district court for the southern district of new york, ballard v. tyco international ltd., et al. plaintiffs are former amp shareholders who received tyco stock in connection with tyco's merger with amp. plaintiffs name as defendants tyco international ltd., pricewaterhousecoopers llp, former officers l. dennis kozlowski, mark swartz, mark belnick and former directors frank walsh and michael ashcroft. the complaint asserts causes of action under sections 10(b), 14(a) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, sections 11 and 12 (a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, common law fraud and negligent misrepresentation. the complaint seeks an award of compensatory and exemplary damages. on march 15, 2004, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred ballard to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on june 10, 2004, the court entered 25 an order consolidating ballard with the securities action. on july 12, 2004, the company moved to dismiss the complaint. on july 19, 2004, plaintiffs moved for reconsideration of the consolidation order. on april 22, 2005, the court granted pricewaterhousecoopers llp's motion to dismiss. on july 11, 2005, the court denied the company's motion to dismiss. on july 12, 2005, the court granted plaintiffs' motion for reconsideration. on august 5, 2005, the company answered the plaintiffs' complaint. as previously reported in our periodic filings, plaintiff moved to remand davis v. kozlowski , an action originally filed on december 9, 2003, from the united states district court for the district of new hampshire back to the circuit court of cook county, illinois. on march 17, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire granted plaintiff's motion to remand and denied defendants' motion to dismiss. on march 31, 2005, the company moved for reconsideration of the court's remand order. on july 17, 2006, the court entered an order granting tyco's motion to dismiss on the grounds that all of plaintiff's claims were preempted by federal law. the motion to dismiss was granted without prejudice to plaintiff's right to file another action in state court asserting claims that are not preempted by federal law. as previously reported in our periodic filings, a complaint, sciallo v. tyco international ltd., et al ., was filed on september 30, 2003 in the united states district court for the southern district of new york. the plaintiffs purport to be former executives of u.s. surgical who traded their u.s. surgical stock options for tyco international, ltd. stock options when tyco acquired u.s. surgical on october 1, 1998. plaintiffs name as defendants tyco international ltd. and certain former tyco directors and executives. the complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, for common law fraud and negligence, and violation of new york general business law section 349, which prohibits deceptive acts and practices in the conduct of any business. the complaint alleges that defendants made materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, tyco's financial condition and accounting practices. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. as previously reported in our periodic filings, a complaint was filed on september 2, 2004 in the court of common pleas for dauphin county, pennsylvania, jasin v. tyco international ltd., et. al. this pro se plaintiff named as additional defendants tyco international (us) inc., l. dennis kozlowski, our former chairman and chief executive officer, mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director and juergen w. gromer, currently president of tyco electronics. plaintiff's complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, as well as section 11 of the securities act of 1933. claims against messrs. kozlowski, swartz and gromer are also asserted under section 14(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder and section 20a of the securities exchange act of 1934, as well as sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the securities act of 1933. plaintiff also asserts common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, unfair trade practice, breach of contract, breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing and violation of section 1-402 of the pennsylvania securities act of 1972. tyco has removed the complaint to the united states district court for the middle district of pennsylvania. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. the plaintiff has moved to vacate the conditional transfer order. as previously reported in our periodic filings, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation was notified that hall v. kozlowski may be an action that should be transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. thereafter, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on march 16, 2005, tyco international (us) inc. answered plaintiff's amended complaint. 26 shareholder derivative litigation as previously reported in our periodic filings, an action was filed on june 7, 2002 in the supreme court of the state of new york, levin v. kozlowski , alleging that the individually named defendants breached their fiduciary duties, committed waste and mismanagement and engaged in self-dealing in connection with tyco's accounting practices, individual board members' use of funds, and the financial disclosures of certain mergers and acquisitions. it is further alleged that certain of the individual defendants converted corporate assets for their own use. plaintiffs seek money damages. plaintiffs agreed to stay that action pending the resolution of the federal derivative action, which was dismissed by the united states district court for the district of new hampshire on october 14, 2004; and the appeal from that ruling was voluntarily dismissed on may 19, 2005. on june 14, 2005, the plaintiffs resumed the levin action. on september 22, 2005, the company filed a motion to dismiss the derivative complaint. on november 14, 2006, the supreme court of the state of new york dismissed the complaint with prejudice. erisa litigation and investigation as previously reported in our periodic filings, tyco and certain of our current and former employees, officers and directors, have been named as defendants in eight class actions brought under the employee retirement income security act. two of the actions were filed in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire and the six remaining actions were transferred to that court by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation. all eight actions have been consolidated in the district court in new hampshire. the complaints purported to bring claims on behalf of the tyco international (us) inc. retirement savings and investment plans and the participants therein. on january 12, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire denied, without prejudice, the company's motion to dismiss certain additional individual defendants from the action. on january 20, 2005, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. on january 27, 2005, the company answered the plaintiffs' consolidated complaint. also, on january 28, 2005, the company and certain individual defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court's january 12, 2005 order, insofar as it related to the tyco international (us) inc. retirement committee. on may 25, 2005, the court denied the motion for reconsideration. on july 11, 2005, the company and certain individual defendants opposed plaintiffs' motion for class certification. on august 15, 2006, the court entered an order certifying a class "consisting of all participants in the plans for whose individual accounts the plans purchased and/or held shares of tyco stock fund at any time from august 12, 1998 to july 25, 2002." on august 29, 2006, tyco filed a petition for leave to appeal the class certification order to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit. on november 13, 2006, the court denied tyco's petition. in addition, tyco and certain of our current and former executives have received requests from the united states department of labor for information concerning the administration of the tyco international (us) inc. retirement savings and investment plans. the current focus of the department's inquiry concerns losses allegedly experienced by the plans due to investments in our shares. the department of labor has authority to bring suit on behalf of the plans and their participants against those acting as fiduciaries to the plans for recovery of losses and additional penalties, although it has not informed us of any intention to do so. tyco litigation against former senior management tyco international, ltd. v. l. dennis kozlowski, united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-7317, filed september 12, 2002, amended april 1, 2003. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former chairman and chief executive officer for breach of fiduciary duty and other wrongful conduct. the company amended that complaint on april 1, 2003. the amended complaint alleges that the defendant misappropriated millions of dollars 27 from our key employee loan program and relocation program; awarded millions of dollars in unauthorized bonuses to himself and certain other tyco employees; engaged in improper self-dealing real estate transactions involving our assets; and conspired with certain other former tyco employees in committing these acts. the amended complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unjust enrichment, breach of contract, conversion, constructive trust, and other wrongful conduct. the amended complaint seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the former chairman and chief executive officer's conduct, and of all remuneration, including restricted and unrestricted shares and options, obtained by mr. kozlowski during the course of this conduct. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on october 6, 2003, mr. kozlowski filed a motion to dismiss or stay the case and compel arbitration, which was denied on march 16, 2004, with one exception relating to the arbitration of a claim asserting the fraudulent inducement of mr. kozlowski's retention agreement. on april 9, 2004, mr. kozlowski filed an answer, affirmative defenses and counterclaims, seeking amounts allegedly due pursuant to his purported retention agreement, life insurance policies, and other arrangements. tyco filed its reply to the counterclaims on april 29, 2004. discovery in this and the other affirmative cases is proceeding. mr. kozlowski was tried on criminal charges in new york county. the first criminal trial resulted in a mistrial declared on april 2, 2004. the retrial of mr. kozlowski began on january 18, 2005 and concluded on june 17, 2005, when the jury returned verdicts. of the thirty-one counts submitted to it, which were similar to certain of the claims alleged in the company's affirmative action described above, the jury found mr. kozlowski guilty on all charges of grand larceny, conspiracy and securities fraud, and all but one count of falsification of business records. on september 19, 2005, mr. kozlowski was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of eight and one-third years to twenty-five years, and ordered to pay an individual fine of $70 million and restitution, jointly and severally with mr. swartz, to tyco of $134 million within one year. on september 19, 2005, mr. kozlowski filed a notice of appeal from his conviction and on october 3, 2006 filed a brief in support of his appeal. tyco has initiated the process of collecting the restitution payment owed to it, and on november 17, 2006, the supreme court of the state of new york ordered $98 million to be released from an escrow account under the supervision of the manhattan district attorney to tyco on january 2, 2007. tyco international, ltd. v. mark h. swartz, united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 03-cv-2247 (tpg), filed april 1, 2003. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed an arbitration claim against mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director, on october 7, 2002. as a consequence of mr. swartz's refusal to submit to the jurisdiction of the american arbitration association, we filed a civil complaint against him on april 1, 2003, for breach of fiduciary duty and other wrongful conduct. the action alleges that the defendant misappropriated millions of dollars from our key employees loan program and relocation program; approved and implemented awards of millions of dollars of unauthorized bonuses to himself and certain other tyco employees; awarded millions of dollars in unauthorized payments to himself; engaged in improper self dealing real estate transactions involving our assets; and conspired with certain other former tyco employees in committing these acts. the complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unjust enrichment, conversion, and constructive trust, and other wrongful conduct. the action seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the former chief financial officer and director's conduct, and all remuneration, including restricted and unrestricted shares and options, obtained by mr. swartz's during the course of this conduct. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. mr. swartz moved to dismiss tyco's complaint and to compel arbitration of the parties' respective claims. the court denied swartz's motion and he has appealed the court's decision to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit. his appeal was heard on december 8, 2004. the first circuit affirmed the district court's decision on september 7, 2005. discovery in this and the other affirmative cases is proceeding. 28 mr. swartz was tried on criminal charges in new york county. the first criminal trial resulted in a mistrial declared on april 2, 2004. the retrial of mr. swartz began on january 18, 2005 and concluded on june 17, 2005, when the jury returned verdicts. of the thirty-one counts submitted to it, which were similar to certain of the claims alleged in the company's affirmative action described above, the jury found mr. swartz guilty on all charges of grand larceny, conspiracy and securities fraud, and all but one count of falsification of business records. on september 19, 2005, mr. swartz was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of eight and one-third years to twenty-five years, and ordered to pay an individual fine of $35 million and restitution, jointly and severally with mr. kozlowski, to tyco of $134 million within one year. on september 19, 2005, mr. swartz filed a notice of appeal from his conviction and on october 3, 2006 filed a brief in support of his appeal. on october 27, 2006, mr. swartz paid restitution to the company in the amount of $38 million. tyco international, ltd. v. l. dennis kozlowski and mark h. swartz, united states district court southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-9705, filed december 6, 2002. as previously disclosed in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former chairman and chief executive officer and former chief financial officer and director pursuant to section 16(b) of the securities and exchange act of 1934 for disgorgement of short-swing profits from prohibited transactions in our common shares believed to exceed $40 million. the action seeks disgorgement of profits, interest, attorney's fees and costs. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on october 6, 2003, messrs. kozlowski and swartz moved to dismiss the claims against them based upon the statute of limitations. on march 16, 2004, judge barbadoro in the district of new hampshire granted the defendants' motion to dismiss in part with leave for tyco to file an amended complaint. tyco filed an amended complaint on may 14, 2004. the defendants moved to dismiss certain claims in the amended complaint on june 28, 2004. the defendants' motion to dismiss was denied on april 21, 2005. the defendants' motion to extend time to answer the complaint until thirty days after the conclusion of deliberations in the criminal trial was granted on may 17, 2005. both defendants' filed their answers on july 18, 2005. tyco international ltd. v. frank e. walsh, jr., united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-4633, filed june 17, 2002. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against a former director for breach of fiduciary duty and related wrongful conduct involving a $20 million payment in connection with a 2001 acquisition by tyco. the action alleges causes of action for restitution, breach of fiduciary duty and inducing breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, unjust enrichment, and a constructive trust, and seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the defendant director's conduct. on december 17, 2002, mr. walsh paid $20 million in restitution to tyco, which was deposited by the company in january 2003, as a result of a plea bargain agreement with the new york county district attorney. our claims against mr. walsh are still pending. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. discovery in this and the other affirmative cases is proceeding. tyco international ltd. v. mark a. belnick, no. 02-cv-4644 (swk) , filed june 17, 2002. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former executive vice president and chief corporate counsel for breach of fiduciary duty and other wrongful conduct. on october 21, 2002, in a related proceeding, mr. belnick commenced an arbitration proceeding in new york county, new york. on october 7, 2005, the company and mr. belnick entered into a settlement agreement that resolved all claims each party had previously asserted against the other. tyco international ltd. v. aig life of bermuda ltd. (formerly known as american general life of bermuda ltd.); l. dennis kozlowski; and butterfield trust (bermuda) limited, index no. 2006: no. 82, filed on march 6, 2006 (amended april 6, 2006). we filed a civil complaint in the supreme court of bermuda against our former chief executive officer and others with respect to an insurance policy on the life of the former chief executive officer issued by aig life of bermuda ltd. and held in trust by butterfield trust (bermuda) limited, seeking declarations that tyco was entitled to the premiums, proceeds and value of the policy. on september 27, 2006, tyco, mr. kozlowski and the other parties entered into a confidential settlement that resolved the claims in this action, with a portion of the disputed funds placed in escrow pending the resolution of the additional claims including those in the multidistrict litigation actions currently pending before the district court for the district of new hampshire. 29 subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities as previously disclosed in our periodic filings, we and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec, the united states department of labor, the general service administration and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. we are cooperating with these investigations and are complying with these requests. certain current and former employees in fire and security received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices for the adt dealer connect fees. as previously reported in our periodic filings, these practices have been discontinued. the united states department of labor served document subpoenas on tyco and fidelity management trust company for documents concerning the administration of the tyco international (us) inc. retirement savings and investment plans. the current focus of the department's inquiry concerns the losses allegedly experienced by the plans due to investments in our stock. the department of labor has authority to bring suit on behalf of the plans and their participants against those acting as fiduciaries to the plans for recovery of losses and additional penalties, although it has not informed us of any intention to do so. the company is continuing to cooperate with the department's investigation. as previously disclosed, in november 2004, we received an order from the sec to report facts and circumstances involving our participation, if any, in the united nations oil for food program governing sales of iraqi oil. on january 10, 2005 and november 8, 2005, we responded to the order and provided information concerning transactions under the united nations oil for food program. on january 31, 2006, we received a subpoena from the sec to produce additional documents and information related to the participation of three of our businesses in the oil for food program. the sec notified the company on june 7, 2006 that it was dismissing tyco from the sec's investigation of the united nations oil for food program. on january 27, 2006, we received from the new jersey division of criminal justice office of the attorney general a subpoena to produce documents concerning, among other things, former employees, the use of certain chemicals, and the filing of reports under state and federal environmental reporting laws at the same new jersey facility sold by tyco in 2000. the subpoena seeks information for the period from january 1987 to december 2000. we have provided information in response to the subpoena and will continue to cooperate fully with the investigators. intellectual property and antitrust litigation as previously disclosed in our periodic filings, we are a party to a number of patent infringement and antitrust actions that may require us to pay damage awards. tyco has assessed the status of these matters and has recorded liabilities related to certain of these matters where appropriate. mallinckrodt, inc. ("mallinckrodt") and nellcor puritan bennett, inc. ("nellcor"), plaintiffs/counter-defendants v. masimo corporation ("masimo") et al., defendants/counter-claimants, is a consolidated patent infringement action filed on june 19, 2000 in the united states district court for the central district of california. nellcor is a subsidiary of tyco. nellcor alleges that masimo infringed one nellcor patent related to pulse oximeters, which are medical devices used to measure blood oxygen levels in patients, and masimo alleges that nellcor infringed four masimo patents related to pulse oximeters. trial in the action commenced on february 18, 2004. on march 16, 2004, the jury returned a liability finding that nellcor willfully infringed the four masimo patents and that masimo did not infringe the one nellcor patent. on march 26, 2004, the jury awarded masimo $135 million in damages for nellcor's alleged infringement through december 31, 2003. after hearing post-trial motions, the district court issued an order on july 14, 2004 which (i) denied masimo's request to impose an injunction on the sale of pulse oximeters; (ii) reversed the jury finding of patent infringement for one of the four 30 patents at issue; (iii) ruled that a second patent was unenforceable due to masimo's inequitable conduct in seeking the patent; and (iv) overturned the jury finding that the infringement was "willful." on august 6, 2004, the district court entered final judgment that included additional damages of $30 million for nellcor's alleged infringement from january 1, 2004 through may 31, 2004. nellcor asserts that masimo infringes a second nellcor patent (u.s. patent no. 4,934,372 the "372 patent"). on april 8, 2005, the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit issued a decision in nellcor's favor that reversed the district court's summary judgment finding of no infringement regarding the 372 patent claim against masimo. the court of appeals remanded nellcor's 372 patent claim to the district court for further proceedings. the district court has not yet scheduled trial in the 372 case. nellcor appealed the jury's infringement finding on the remaining two masimo patents to the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit. on september 7, 2005, the court of appeals issued a decision on the appeal that was adverse to nellcor. in particular, the court of appeals: (1) affirmed the infringement finding against nellcor on two patents; (2) reversed the district court's ruling of non-infringement of a third patent; and (3) reversed the district court's ruling not to enter an injunction and directed the district court to issue an injunction. the court of appeals also: (1) affirmed the district court's ruling that nellcor's infringement was not willful, which precluded masimo from seeking up to treble damages; and (2) affirmed the district court's ruling that one of masimo's patents was unenforceable due to masimo's inequitable conduct in seeking the patent. the company has assessed the amount of potential additional damages and interest accruing from the date of entry of final judgment to the present. accordingly, during the fiscal quarter ending september 30, 2005, tyco recorded a pre-tax charge of $277 million related to this matter and does not expect to incur material losses beyond the amount accrued. on january 17, 2006, tyco international ltd., and its subsidiaries tyco international (us) inc., tyco healthcare group lp, mallinckrodt, inc., and nellcor puritan bennett, inc. (collectively "nellcor") entered into a settlement agreement and release of claims with masimo corporation and masimo laboratories, inc. (the "settlement") related to the consolidated patent infringement action. under the terms of the settlement, tyco on behalf of nellcor, paid masimo a total of $330 million on january 19, 2006, which represents $265 million in damages in the patent case for sales through january 31, 2006 (after which the infringing products will no longer be sold) and $65 million as an advance royalty for oximetry sales including nellcor's new 06 technology products from february 1, 2006 through december 31, 2006. the settlement does not resolve the masimo antitrust lawsuit or the related consumer antitrust class lawsuits described below. under the terms of the settlement, nellcor receives from masimo a covenant not to sue on the nellcor 06 products as well as a termination of all pending patent litigation with masimo. in march 2011, nellcor has the option to terminate masimo's covenant not to sue and the obligation to pay future royalties on nellcor's current products as well as any next-generation products. in addition, nellcor shall discontinue making, offering to sell, selling or shipping any products that the court found infringed on the patents held by masimo, but will continue to provide service and sensors for the previously sold products. masimo corporation v. tyco healthcare group lp ("tyco healthcare") and mallinckrodt, inc. is a separate lawsuit filed on may 22, 2002 also pending in the united states district court for the central district of california. tyco healthcare and mallinckrodt are subsidiaries of tyco. in this lawsuit, masimo alleges violations of antitrust laws against tyco healthcare and mallinckrodt in the markets for pulse oximeter products. masimo alleges that tyco healthcare and mallinckrodt used their market position to prevent hospitals from purchasing masimo's pulse oximetry products. masimo seeks injunctive relief and monetary damages, including treble damages. trial in this case began on february 22, 2005. the jury returned its verdict on march 21, 2005, and awarded masimo $140 million in damages. the damages are automatically trebled under the antitrust statute to an award of $420 million. if ultimately successful, masimo's attorneys are entitled to an award of reasonable fees 31 and costs in addition to the verdict amount. the district court held a hearing on june 28, 2005 regarding post-trial motions. on march 22, 2006, the district court issued its memorandum of decision regarding the post-trial motions. in the memorandum, the district court (i) vacated the jury's liability findings on two business practices; (ii) affirmed the jury's liability finding on two other business practices; (iii) vacated the jury's damage award in its entirety; and (iv) ordered a new trial on damages. the district court held the new trial on the damages on october 18 and 19, 2006. after post-trial briefing, the district court will issue its decision regarding the amount of damages to be awarded. tyco has assessed the status of this matter and has concluded that it is more likely than not that the jury's decision will be overturned, and, further, tyco intends to vigorously pursue all available means to achieve such reversal. accordingly, no provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements with respect to this damage award. beginning on august 29, 2005 with natchitoches parish hospital service district v. tyco international, ltd., twelve consumer class actions have been filed against nellcor in the united states district court for the central district of california. the remaining eleven actions are allied orthopedic appliances, inc. v. tyco healthcare group lp, and mallinckrodt inc. filed on august 29, 2005, scott valley respiratory home care v. tyco healthcare group lp, and mallinckrodt inc. filed on october 27, 2005, brooks memorial hospital et al v. tyco healthcare group lp filed on october 18, 2005, all star oxygen services, inc. et al v. tyco healthcare group, et al filed on october 25, 2005, niagara falls memorial medical center, et al v. tyco healthcare group lp filed on october 28, 2005, nicholas h. noyes memorial hospital v. tyco healthcare and mallinckrodt filed on november 4, 2005, north bay hospital, inc. v. tyco healthcare group, et al filed on november 15, 2005, stephen skoronski v. tyco international, ltd., et al filed on november 21, 2005, abington memorial hospital v. tyco int'l ltd.; tyco int'l (us) inc.; mallinckrodt in.; tyco healthcare group lp filed on november 22, 2005, south jersey hospital, inc. v. tyco international, ltd., et al filed on january 24, 2006 and deborah heart and lung center v. tyco international, ltd., et al filed on january 27, 2006. in all twelve complaints the putative class representatives, on behalf of themselves and others, seek to recover overcharges they allege they paid for pulse oximetry products as a result of anticompetitive conduct by nellcor in violation of the federal antitrust laws. the company will respond to these complaints and intends to vigorously defend the actions. as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, applied medical resources corp. ("applied medical") v. united states surgical ("u.s. surgical") is a patent infringement action that was filed in the united states district court for the central district of california in april 1999 in which u.s. surgical, a subsidiary of tyco, is the defendant. in february 2002, the district court held that u.s. surgical's versaseal universal seal system, contained in certain surgical trocar and access devices manufactured by u.s. surgical, infringed certain of the plaintiff's patents. the district court entered a permanent injunction against u.s. surgical based upon infringement of one of the three patents involved in the suit. the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit affirmed the district court's permanent injunction ruling in september 2003 for the versaseal product, which is no longer on the market. in october 2003, the district court ruled in u.s. surgical's favor, holding that two other patents involved in the case were invalid. a trial on damages for the earlier infringement ruling in the district court concluded on july 27, 2004. the jury awarded applied medical $44 million in damages and returned a finding that the earlier infringement was willful, giving the district court discretion to enhance those damages to up to treble the damages awarded to applied medical by the jury. on october 1, 2004, the district court issued post-trial rulings that denied u.s. surgical's motion to set aside the jury's finding on willfulness and granted applied medical's motion for enhanced damages, enhancing the jury's damages award by 25%, or $11 million. on january 27, 2005, the district court awarded applied medical $10 million in costs, prejudgment interest and attorneys' fees. thus, applied medical's total award was $65 million. u.s. surgical appealed the damages award and the 32 willfulness finding to the court of appeals for the federal circuit. on january 24, 2006, the court of appeals issued a decision affirming the award to applied medical. on february 17, 2006, tyco, on behalf of u.s. surgical, paid applied medical $66 million which includes post-judgment interest accrued during the appeal. tyco previously recorded a liability of $66 million related to this matter. on july 31, 2003, applied medical filed another patent infringement suit against u.s. surgical in the united states district court for the central district of california. the complaint alleges that u.s. surgical's versaseal plus trocar product infringes applied medical's u.s. patent no. 5,385,553. applied medical seeks injunctive relief and unspecified monetary damages, including enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement. applied medical filed a motion for a preliminary injunction, which the district court denied on december 23, 2003. on february 7, 2005, the district court granted u.s. surgical's motion for summary judgment. applied medical appealed the summary judgment ruling. on may 15, 2006, the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit issued a decision on the appeal vacating the district court's grant of summary judgment and remanding the case for further proceedings. the district court has scheduled trial in this case for july 10, 2007. environmental litigation as previously disclosed, we have been in discussions with the u.s. environmental protection agency and the new jersey department of environmental protection regarding historic environmental compliance issues at a facility sold by tyco in 2000. in a letter dated february 10, 2006, the u.s. environmental protection agency proposed a penalty of $1,750,000 for alleged violations at this facility. the company has discussed this matter in detail with the environmental protection agency and is seeking a negotiated resolution. commercial litigation sensormatic v. winner and bagnara, inc. is a franchise dispute for which sensormatic originally filed a complaint in 1999 in the united states district court for the western district of pennsylvania seeking declaratory relief. on june 28, 2004, the district court entered a stipulated judgment fixing the amount of the defendant's past damages and commissions for royalties allegedly owed under the franchise agreement in the amount of $28 million, plus $5 million in pre-judgment interest, and the entry of an injunction requiring sensormatic to tender the franchise to the defendant. the judgment stayed the imposition and payment of these damages and injunctive relief until resolution of an appeal of the district court's underlying rulings on liability to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit. on june 29, 2004, sensormatic filed its notice of appeal to the court of appeals. on august 31, 2005, the appellate court affirmed the district court judgment. a request for re-hearing before the entire third circuit was denied. no further appeals have been taken and the judgment was satisfied on october 20, 2005. the company does not expect to incur material losses beyond what has already been accrued and paid. asbestos matters as previously reported in our periodic filings, tyco and some of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. the majority of these cases have been filed against subsidiaries in healthcare and engineered products and services. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. the company will continue to vigorously defend these lawsuits and the company has not suffered an adverse verdict in a trial court proceeding related to asbestos claims. when appropriate, the company settles claims. however, the total amount paid in any year to settle and defend all asbestos claims has been immaterial. as of september 29, 2006 there were approximately 15,500 asbestos liability cases pending against the company and our subsidiaries. 33 other matters earth tech v. city of phoenix is a contract dispute arising from earth tech's contract with the city of phoenix, arizona for expansion of the city's 91 st avenue waste water treatment plant. on december 21, 2005, earth tech filed a lawsuit against the city of phoenix in the maricopa county superior court alleging $3 million in damages plus interest for the city's failure to pay dewatering and computer systems costs related to the 91 st avenue project. after the city rejected earth tech's administrative claim against the city, earth tech filed and served a first amended complaint upon the city of phoenix. in its first amended complaint, earth tech alleged eighteen causes of action and requested the following: (i) a recovery of at least $73 million for the value of the services performed by earth tech in connection with the contract; (ii) a rescission of the contract; (iii) an equitable adjustment of the contract price for additional dewatering services and the computer control system; and (iv) costs for demobilization and termination of the contract. the city of phoenix filed a motion to dismiss rather than filing an answer to the first amended complaint on may 18, 2006. the court granted the city's motion to dismiss without prejudice on september 19, 2006 allowing earth tech 30 days to file a second amended complaint. earth tech filed its second amended compliant against the city of phoenix on september 25, 2006. on december 29, 2005, the city of phoenix filed a lawsuit against earth tech, inc., its surety, federal insurance company and other unnamed parties in the maricopa county superior court, the city of phoenix v. earth tech, inc., federal insurance company and john does 1-50. the lawsuit is in connection with the city of phoenix's termination on august 12, 2005 of earth tech's contract with the city of phoenix, arizona for expansion of the city's 91 st avenue waste water treatment plant. the city alleges the following causes of action: (i) earth tech breached its pre-construction services and construction management at risk contracts; (ii) earth tech did not properly, reasonably or timely manage, supervise or inspect the work under the contracts; (iii) federal insurance breached the terms and conditions of the performance bond; and (iv) federal insurance failed to investigate the city's bond claims. the city requested unspecified general, consequential, incidental, special and liquidated damages plus interest as its relief. on february 8, 2006, earth tech filed a motion to dismiss the city's complaint in which federal insurance company joined. the court denied earth tech's motion to dismiss on september 25, 2006. the city of phoenix filed an amended complaint against earth tech and federal insurance on september 25, 2006. in the amended complaint, the city of phoenix alleged damages of $128 million. the presiding judge of maricopa county superior court on july 11, 2006 consolidated all of the pending lawsuits related to this dispute on the court's complex litigation docket. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders none. 34 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the number of registered holders of tyco's common shares at december 6, 2006 was 46,148. tyco common shares are listed and traded on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") and the bermuda stock exchange under the symbol "tyc." the following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of tyco common shares as reported by the nyse, and the dividends paid on tyco common shares, for the quarterly periods presented below. year ended september 29, 2006 year ended september 30, 2005 market price range market price range quarter dividend per common share dividend per common share high low high low first $ 29.58 $ 25.71 $ 0.1000 $ 36.27 $ 29.78 $ 0.0125 second 31.04 24.80 0.1000 36.37 33.18 0.1000 third 28.50 25.78 0.1000 34.44 28.53 0.1000 fourth 27.99 25.23 0.1000 30.96 27.00 0.1000 0.4000 0.3125 dividend policy we may from time to time enter into financing agreements that contain financial covenants and restrictions, some of which may limit the ability of tyco to pay dividends. future dividends on our common shares, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.0125 to $0.10 per share. following the proposed separation, we expect that all three companies will be dividend-paying companies, however, such payments will be at the discretion of each company's board of directors. issuer purchases of equity securities period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under publicly announced plans or programs 7/1/06 7/28/06 4,900,000 $ 27.36 4,900,000 7/29/06 9/1/06 13,364,600 $ 26.04 13,364,600 9/2/06 9/29/06 5,439,200 $ 26.35 5,439,200 the transactions described in the table above represent the repurchase of common shares on the nyse as part of the $2.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in may 2006. the average price paid per share is calculated by dividing the total cash paid for the shares by the total number of shares repurchased. approximately $659 million remained outstanding under this share repurchase program at september 29, 2006. the company, through an affiliate, also acquires shares from certain employees in order to satisfy employee tax withholding requirements in connection with the vesting of restricted shares. approximately 31,000 shares were acquired in these vesting-related transactions outside of the share repurchase program during the quarter ended september 29, 2006. 35 item 6. selected financial data the following tables sets forth selected consolidated financial data of tyco. this data is derived from tyco's consolidated financial statements for the five years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the selected financial information for each of the periods presented below has been restated to reflect the revisions discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. this selected financial data should be read in conjunction with tyco's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of this annual report titled item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 2006 (1) 2005 (2) (3) (restated) 2004 (2) (4) (restated) 2003 (2) (5)(6) (restated) 2002 (2) (7) (restated) (in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of income data: net revenue $ 40,960 $ 39,305 $ 37,960 $ 33,853 $ 32,686 income (loss) from continuing operations 4,075 3,044 2,869 840 (3,023 ) net income (loss) 3,713 3,019 2,820 921 (9,233 ) basic earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations 2.03 1.51 1.43 0.42 (1.52 ) net income (loss) 1.85 1.50 1.41 0.46 (4.64 ) diluted earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations 1.97 1.44 1.34 0.42 (1.52 ) net income (loss) 1.80 1.43 1.32 0.46 (4.64 ) cash dividends per share (8) 0.40 0.31 0.05 0.05 0.05 consolidated balance sheets data (end of period): total assets $ 63,722 $ 62,686 $ 63,737 $ 63,047 $ 65,525 long-term debt 9,365 10,599 14,518 18,059 16,506 shareholders' equity 35,419 32,515 30,362 26,419 24,106 (1) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 29, 2006 includes a charge of $100 million related to the voluntary replacement program, which is included in cost of sales. also included are $169 million of separation costs, a net gain on divestitures of $44 million, net restructuring charges of $26 million, of which $6 million are included in cost of sales, long-lived asset impairment charges of $7 million, the write-off of purchased in-process research and development of $63 million, $161 million of incremental stock option charges required under statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," $72 million of income related to a settlement with a former executive and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. net income includes a $127 million favorable adjustment related to prior year tax reserves on legacy matters. net income also includes a $348 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $14 million loss, net of income taxes, related to the cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the adoption of financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143 " (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). (2) the consolidated income statement data for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 have been restated to reflect additional compensation expense of $24 million ($13 million after-tax), $85 million ($59 million after-tax), $84 million ($59 million after-tax) and $75 million ($53 million after-tax), respectively, in both income from continuing operations as well as net income. this restatement is related to the review of prior period stock option grant practices and equity plan compliance (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). (3) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2005 includes a net gain on divestitures of $271 million, of which a charge of $3 million is included in cost of sales, net restructuring charges of $6 million, of which $1 million is included in cost of sales, long-lived asset impairment charges of $6 million, a $277 million charge related to a patent dispute in the healthcare segment, a $70 million charge related to certain former executives' employment, a $50 million charge related to an sec enforcement action, a loss of $1,013 million related to the retirement of debt, a $109 million of income related to a court-ordered restitution award as well as $4 million charge related to the write-down of an investment. net income also includes a $46 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a 36 $21 million gain, net of income taxes, related to a cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the change in measurement date for pension and post retirement benefit plans (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). (4) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2004 includes a charge of $116 million related to divestitures, net restructuring charges of $210 million, of which $6 million is included in cost of sales, charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $52 million, and a loss of $284 million related to the retirement of debt. net income also includes a $49 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (5) in 2003, tyco consolidated variable interest entities in accordance with the transition provisions of financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 46, " consolidation of variable interest entities ." as a result, tyco recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $75 million, net of income taxes. (6) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2003 includes net restructuring credits of $68 million, charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $825 million, charges for the impairment of goodwill of $245 million, additional changes in estimates $361 which arose from the company's intensified internal audits and detailed controls and operating reviews, a charge of $91 million for a retroactive incremental premium on prior period directors and officers insurance, a loss related to the retirement of debt of $128 million and a charge of $87 million related to the write-down of certain investments. net income also includes $156 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (7) loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2002 includes net restructuring and other charges of $1,791 million, of which $732 million is included in cost of sales, charges of $3,307 million for the impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill impairment charges of $1,344 million, and a charge for the write-off of purchased research and development of $18 million. in addition, loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2002 includes a loss on investments of $271 million, a net gain on divestiture of $24 million and $30 million of income relating to the retirement of debt. net loss also includes a $6,210 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (8) on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.0125 to $0.10 per share. as a result, in 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common share in the first quarter of 2005 and $0.10 per common share thereafter. prior to 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common share for all periods presented. the following table reflects our pro forma disclosures made in accordance with sfas no. 123, " accounting for stock-based compensation ," for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 restated to reflect the revisions discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 2005 (restated) 2004 (restated) 2003 (restated) 2002 (restated) (in millions, except per share data) net income, as reported $ 3,019 $ 2,820 $ 921 $ (9,233 ) add: employee compensation expense for share options included in reported net income, net of income taxes 23 66 67 53 less: total employee compensation expense for share options determined under fair value method, net of income taxes (169 ) (264 ) (367 ) (454 ) net income, pro forma $ 2,873 $ 2,622 $ 621 $ (9,634 ) earnings per share: basic as reported (1) $ 1.50 $ 1.41 $ 0.46 $ (4.64 ) basic pro forma 1.43 1.31 0.31 (4.85 ) diluted as reported (2) 1.43 1.32 0.46 (4.64 ) diluted pro forma 1.37 1.24 0.32 (4.85 ) (1) prior to the restatement, basic eps was reported as $1.51, $1.44, $0.49 and $(4.62) in 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (2) prior to the restatement, diluted eps was reported as $1.43, $1.35, $0.49 and $(4.62) in 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 37 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations including the effects of the restatement described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements should be read together with the selected financial data and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements due to many factors, including but not limited to those under the headings "risk factors" and "forward-looking information." introduction the consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of tyco international ltd., a company organized under the laws of bermuda, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as "we," the "company" or "tyco") and have been prepared in united states dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). the company operates in the following business segments: electronics designs, manufactures and distributes electrical and electronic components and related solutions; fire and security designs, manufactures, installs, monitors and services electronic security and fire protection systems; healthcare designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices and supplies, imaging agents, pharmaceuticals and adult incontinence and infant care products; and engineered products and services designs, manufactures, distributes and services engineered products, including industrial valves and controls, as well as steel tubular goods, and provides consulting, engineering and construction management and operating services. the operating results of the tyco global network ("tgn") business are presented within corporate through the date of its disposal in the third quarter of 2005. restatement review of prior period stock option grant practices following publicity in 2006 regarding the granting of stock options at a number of companies, the company initiated an internal review of its historical stock option grant practices to determine whether the company's stock option award actions were appropriately governed and were accurately reflected in the company's financial statements. the company's internal audit staff, which reports directly to the audit committee of the board of directors, began a review of the company's equity incentive plan practices and associated approvals over the period october 1999 through june 2006. in addition to its review of plan administration, the internal audit staff performed detailed audit procedures on more than 95% of share options granted through the regular and off-cycle grants during this period. the audit procedures covered 100% of named executive officers and section 16 officers and directors. the company's review included an evaluation of grant authorizations, an assessment of the appropriate measurement dates under accounting principles board ("apb") opinion no. 25, " accounting for stock issued to employees ," and the application of appropriate equity pricing methodology. the company has determined that between october 1999 and 2002, there were several grants for which complete documentation was not available. as such, validation of the appropriate measurement date under apb opinion no. 25 was difficult to determine with precision. for such grants, the company determined an appropriate measurement date in reliance upon all available evidence and 38 consideration of alternatives, including the communication date to grantees for all grants, to establish a reasonable date upon which equity recipients and share awards were known, fixed and ready to be communicated to employees. to the extent the company was able to conclude that grant date lists were fixed and ready to be communicated to employees, the measurement date was considered to be the grant date. however, in many instances, the measurement date the company used was the date that the equity award was communicated to the recipient. the company has concluded that errors relating to the company's stock option accounting primarily resulted from: (a) incomplete documentation to enable application of accounting principles under apb opinion no. 25; (b) the unintentional misapplication of generally accepted accounting principles; and (c) the absence of adequate control procedures in 1999 through early 2002 designed to ensure equity recipients and share awards were fixed and certain prior to the legal grant date. the amount of aggregate compensation expense related to this item, which the company should have recorded in prior periods, is $252 million pre-tax and $173 million after-tax, relating to grants awarded prior to the end of 2002. none of this amount relates to 2006, $17 million pre-tax ($8 million after-tax) relates to 2005 and $66 million pre-tax ($46 million after-tax) relates to 2004, as awards vested over the relevant vesting periods. had the company used the communication date as the measurement date in all instances, the difference in the amount recorded would not have been material to any period or in the aggregate. review of equity plan compliance separately, the company identified an error related to the recognition of compensation expense under the company's employee stock purchase program in the united kingdom. the aggregate compensation expense related to this item which the company should have recorded in 2002-2005 is $29 million pre-tax and $20 million after-tax. none of this amount relates to 2006, $7 million pre-tax ($5 million after-tax) relates to 2005 and $19 million pre-tax ($13 million after-tax) relates to 2004. effect of restatement taken together, these prior period errors result in an aggregate understatement of compensation expense of $281 million pre-tax and $193 million after-tax. based on the findings of the items discussed above, the company has restated its reported results for prior periods to reflect the impact of additional stock-based compensation expense in corporate. the impact by year is as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 and prior total pre-tax impact $ 24 $ 85 $ 84 $ 75 $ 13 $ 281 after-tax impact $ 13 $ 59 $ 59 $ 53 $ 9 $ 193 the impact on the consolidated statements of income for the years ended september 30, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated balance sheet as of september 30, 2005, as a result of the above restatement, is summarized in the tables below. there was no impact on total cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities within the consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended september 30, 2005 and 2004. the amounts previously reported are derived from the 39 form 10-k for the year ended september 30, 2005 filed on december 9, 2005 and have been reclassified for the effects of discontinued operations. years ended september 30, 2005 2004 ($ in millions) operating income, as previously reported $ 5,792 $ 5,231 adjustments: prior period stock option grant practices (17 ) (66 ) equity plan compliance (7 ) (19 ) decrease (24 ) (85 ) operating income, as restated $ 5,768 $ 5,146 operating margins: as previously reported 14.7 % 13.8 % as restated 14.7 % 13.6 % net income accumulated earnings years ended september 30, at october 1, 2005 2004 2003 ($ in millions) as previously reported $ 3,032 $ 2,879 $ 2,961 adjustments: prior period stock option grant practices (8 ) (46 ) (119 ) equity plan compliance (5 ) (13 ) (2 ) decrease (1) (13 ) (59 ) (121 ) as restated $ 3,019 $ 2,820 $ 2,840 (1) the impact of the restatement described above on accumulated earnings was $59 million, $53 million, and $9 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001 and prior, respectively. 40 years ended september 30, 2005 2004 amounts previously reported as restated amounts previously reported as restated ($ in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of income data: selling, general and administrative expenses $ 8,205 $ 8,229 $ 8,097 $ 8,182 operating income 5,792 5,768 5,231 5,146 income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 4,189 4,165 4,080 3,995 income taxes (1,123 ) (1,112 ) (1,138 ) (1,112 ) income from continuing operations 3,057 3,044 2,928 2,869 income before cumulative effect of accounting change 3,011 2,998 2,879 2,820 net income $ 3,032 $ 3,019 $ 2,879 $ 2,820 basic earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.52 $ 1.51 $ 1.46 $ 1.43 income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1.50 1.49 1.44 1.41 net income $ 1.51 $ 1.50 $ 1.44 $ 1.41 diluted earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.45 $ 1.44 $ 1.37 $ 1.34 income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1.42 1.42 1.35 1.32 net income $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.35 $ 1.32 as of september 30, 2005 amounts previously reported as restated ($ in millions) consolidated balance sheet data: assets other assets $ 5,225 $ 5,290 total assets $ 62,621 $ 62,686 liabilities and shareholders' equity contributed surplus, net $ 15,249 $ 15,507 accumulated earnings (1) 7,993 7,800 total shareholders' equity 32,450 32,515 total liabilities and shareholders' equity $ 62,621 $ 62,686 (1) the impact of the restatement described above on accumulated earnings as of september 30, 2004 and october 1, 2003 was a decrease of $180 million and $121 million, respectively. overview as previously reported in our periodic filings, on january 13, 2006, the company announced that its board of directors approved a plan to separate the company into three separate, publicly traded companies tyco healthcare, one of the world's leading diversified healthcare companies; tyco electronics, the world's largest passive electronic components manufacturer; and a combination of tyco fire and security and engineered products and services, a global business with leading positions in residential and commercial security, fire protection, and industrial products and services (the "proposed separation"). after thorough reviews of strategic options with our board of directors, we believe that this strategy is the best way to position our market-leading companies for sustained growth and value creation. following the proposed separation, tyco's shareholders will own 100% of the equity in all three companies through tax-free stock dividends. each company will have its own independent board of 41 directors and strong corporate governance standards. we expect to file registration statements in connection with the proposed separation during the second quarter of 2007. in connection with the proposed separation, the company continues to estimate that the net economic cost to complete the transaction is expected to approximate $1.0 billion, largely for tax restructuring, debt refinancing, professional services and employee-related costs. depending on prevailing market conditions through the date of the proposed separation, the company anticipates that the corresponding income statement charges would be larger than net economic cost to complete the proposed separation. the difference between the income statement charges and the estimated net economic cost is expected to result from costs to retire, refinance or reassign debt, as well as non-cash charges. during 2006, the company incurred $169 million of costs related to the proposed separation primarily related to legal, accounting and consulting work associated with executing the transaction. consummation of the proposed separation is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by the tyco board of directors, receipt of certain tax rulings, necessary opinions of counsel, the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the securities and exchange commission ("sec") and the completion of any necessary debt refinancings. approval by the company's shareholders is not required as a condition to the consummation of the proposed separation. tyco has received an initial private letter ruling from the internal revenue service ("irs") regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the proposed separation noting it will qualify for favorable tax treatment. we are focused on growing profitability within each of these companies before and after the proposed separation, so that each may be well positioned for long-term growth as independent entities. following the proposed separation, we expect that all three companies will be dividend-paying companies. as we prepare for the proposed separation, we remain committed to returning excess cash to shareholders. during 2006, we repurchased 95 million of our common shares for $2.5 billion under our share repurchase programs. we completed the $1.5 billion share repurchase program previously approved by the board of directors with the repurchase of 45 million of our common shares for $1.2 billion and we repurchased an additional 50 million of our common shares for $1.3 billion under the new $2.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in may 2006. we have $659 million remaining on the $2.0 billion share repurchase program which we expect to complete prior to the proposed separation. during 2006, holders of tyco international group s.a., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company organized under the laws of luxembourg ("tigsa") series a 2.75% convertible senior debentures due 2018 with a 2008 put option converted $1.2 billion of these debentures into 54 million tyco common shares and redeemed the remaining $1 million principal amount outstanding with cash. additionally, we utilized $1.0 billion in cash for a scheduled repayment of public notes and terminated one of our synthetic lease facilities for a total cash payment of $203 million, reducing principal debt and minority interest by $191 million and $10 million, respectively. in october 2006, we exercised our right to buy five cable laying sea vessels that were previously included under an off-balance sheet leasing arrangement for $280 million. during 2006, we completed the sale of our plastics and adhesives segment. our plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses were sold for net proceeds of $882 million and the a&amp;e products group was sold for net proceeds of $2 million. during 2006, the company also recorded a $30 million receivable due from the purchaser of the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses based on the decline of average resin prices during fiscal year 2006, as contemplated in the definitive sale agreement. this amount is payable to tyco no later than january 2007. additionally, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell printed circuit group ("pcg"), a tyco electronics business and leading manufacturer of high-technology printed circuit boards for the military, aerospace and commercial markets, for $226 million. this transaction was completed on october 27, 2006 and a gain on sale of approximately $45 million is expected. as such, the operations of our plastics and adhesives 42 segment and pcg business are reflected as discontinued operations in all periods presented. details related to the company's divestiture program and the related discontinued operations are discussed in "discontinued operations and divestitures." we are continuing to assess the strategic fit of our various businesses and are considering additional divestitures where businesses do not align with our long term vision. to further improve operating efficiency, during the first quarter of 2007, we have launched a restructuring program across all segments including the corporate organization which will streamline some of the businesses and reduce our operational footprint. we expect to incur charges of approximately $600 million over the next two years, of which $500 million is expected to be incurred in 2007. we expect that the total cash expenditures for this program will be approximately $450 million, of which $250 million is expected in 2007. we believe this restructuring program will strengthen our competitive position over the long term. operating results net revenue and net income for the years ended september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 and 2004, as restated, was as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 (restated) 2004 (restated) revenue from product sales $ 33,146 $ 31,533 $ 29,886 service revenue 7,814 7,772 8,074 net revenue $ 40,960 $ 39,305 $ 37,960 operating income $ 5,474 $ 5,768 $ 5,146 interest income 134 123 91 interest expense (713 ) (815 ) (956 ) other expense, net (11 ) (911 ) (286 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 4,884 4,165 3,995 income taxes (799 ) (1,112 ) (1,112 ) minority interest (10 ) (9 ) (14 ) income from continuing operations 4,075 3,044 2,869 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (348 ) (46 ) (49 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 3,727 2,998 2,820 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (14 ) 21 net income $ 3,713 $ 3,019 $ 2,820 net revenue increased $1.7 billion, or 4.2%, for 2006 as compared to 2005, as a result of growth in all segments, led by electronics and engineered products and services. foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of acquisitions and divestitures negatively impacted 2006 revenue growth by $326 million and $125 million, respectively. operating income decreased $294 million, or 5.1%, for 2006 while operating margin decreased 1.3 percentage points to 13.4%. operating income for 2006 was unfavorably impacted by charges of $426 million, consisting of separation costs of $169 million; incremental stock option charges of $161 million as required under statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," charges of $63 million related to purchased in-process research and development and net restructuring and impairment charges of $33 million, of which $6 million is included in cost of sales. operating income for 2006 also included net gains and impairments on divestitures of $44 million, $72 million of income related to a settlement with a former executive and 43 $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. in addition, foreign currency exchange rates negatively affected operating income by $52 million. net revenue increased $1.3 billion, or 3.5%, for 2005 as compared to 2004, which resulted from growth in all segments. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected 2005 by $873 million while the impact of divestitures and acquisitions negatively impacted the period by $689 million. operating income increased $622 million, or 12.1%, for 2005 while operating margin increased 1.1 percentage point to 14.7%. operating income for 2005 was favorably impacted by the gain on the sale of the tgn business of $301 million. in addition, the year was unfavorably impacted by charges related to an adverse decision by the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit on a patent dispute in the healthcare segment of $277 million, a charge related to an sec enforcement action of $50 million and a charge relating to former executives' employment of $70 million. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected operating income by $142 million. results by geographic area net revenue by geographic area for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 was as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 net revenue: united states $ 19,985 $ 19,298 $ 19,254 other americas 2,494 2,202 2,103 europe 11,498 11,407 10,830 asia-pacific 6,983 6,398 5,773 net revenue (1) $ 40,960 $ 39,305 $ 37,960 (1) revenue from external customers is attributed to individual countries based on the reporting entity that records the transaction. segment results the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in continuing operations. electronics net revenue, operating income and operating margin for electronics for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 revenue from product sales $ 12,515 $ 11,620 $ 10,921 service revenue 209 154 450 net revenue $ 12,724 $ 11,774 $ 11,371 operating income $ 1,808 $ 1,849 $ 1,744 operating margin 14.2 % 15.7 % 15.3 % net revenue for electronics increased $950 million or 8.1% in 2006 as compared to 2005, including a 7.7% increase in product revenue. the increase in net revenue reflects broad-based volume growth across most customer end markets, especially premise wiring, industrial machinery and equipment, consumer electronics, communications equipment manufacturing and communication service provider markets. these increases were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $148 million. 44 operating income and operating margin for 2006 decreased as compared to 2005 due primarily to increased material costs of $306 million, incremental stock option charges of $40 million required under sfas no. 123r and negative changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $23 million. additionally, operating income for 2006 included net restructuring, divestiture and impairment charges of $16 million, of which $6 million is reflected in cost of sales, as compared to net restructuring and other credits of $10 million in 2005, discussed below. operating income for 2006 also includes $3 million related to the proposed separation. net revenue for electronics increased $403 million or 3.5% in 2005 as compared to 2004, including a 6.4% increase in product revenue. the increase in net revenue was driven primarily by sales to the automotive, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, power utilities, communications equipment manufacturing and communication service provider markets. in addition, revenue increased substantially due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $291 million. these increases were partially offset by the impact of the divestiture of the electrical contracting services business of $353 million. operating income and operating margin for 2005 increased as compared to 2004 due primarily to increased sales volume, cost savings initiatives and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $57 million. these increases were partially offset by an 80 basis point impact of increased commodity costs. additionally, operating income for 2005 included net restructuring and other credits of $10 million, as compared to net restructuring, divestiture and impairment charges of $20 million in 2004. fire and security net revenue, operating income and operating margin for fire and security for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 revenue from product sales $ 5,426 $ 5,299 $ 5,343 service revenue 6,227 6,204 6,104 net revenue $ 11,653 $ 11,503 $ 11,447 operating income $ 1,190 $ 1,216 $ 899 operating margin 10.2 % 10.6 % 7.9 % net revenue for fire and security increased $150 million or 1.3% in 2006 as compared to 2005, including a 2.4% increase in product revenue. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of security, fire protection and other systems. net revenue increased due to growth in worldwide fire protection contracting and services primarily related to electrical and mechanical contracting as well as growth in the north american and international markets in our worldwide electronic security services. these increases were offset by the impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $117 million, unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $60 million, and a decrease in sales of breathing and fire detection products within safety products. operating income decreased $26 million in 2006 over the prior year primarily as a result of lower margins, increased investments in selling and marketing and a decline in european recurring monitoring revenues within worldwide electronic security services. results for the current period included net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $11 million as compared to net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $28 million in 2005. operating income for 2006 was favorably impacted by cost savings related to operational excellence initiatives and prior year restructuring programs. in addition, 2006 operating income was unfavorably impacted by $2 million 45 related to the proposed separation as well as incremental stock option charges of $35 million required under sfas no. 123r. attrition rates for customers in our worldwide electronic security services business decreased to 13.8% on a trailing twelve-month basis for 2006, as compared to 14.8% for 2005 and 15.1% in 2004. net revenue for fire and security remained relatively level during 2005 as compared to 2004 as the decrease in product revenue was offset by an increase in service revenue. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of security, fire protection and other systems. net revenue increased due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $274 million and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volume of breathing and intrusion products at tyco safety products as well as growth in our european fire services business. these increases were offset by the impact of divestitures of $315 million and decreased sales at our security business in europe. operating income increased $317 million in 2005 over the prior year. results for the current period included net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $28 million as compared to net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $264 million in 2004. operating income for 2005 was also favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange rates of $26 million as well as cost savings related to operational excellence initiatives and prior year restructuring programs. these cost reductions were partially offset by increased investment in sales and marketing. healthcare net revenue, operating income and operating margin for healthcare for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 revenue from product sales $ 9,579 $ 9,477 $ 9,040 service revenue 62 66 70 net revenue $ 9,641 $ 9,543 $ 9,110 operating income $ 2,200 $ 2,286 $ 2,365 operating margin 22.8 % 24.0 % 26.0 % net revenue for healthcare increased $98 million or 1.0% in 2006 as compared to 2005. this increase was largely driven by the international and surgical divisions within medical devices &amp; supplies as a result of strong growth across the majority of geographic regions in surgical sales including laparoscopy, ablation and vessel sealing, and to a lesser extent, sutures. also contributing to the revenue increase was volume growth in bulk pharmaceuticals (active pharmaceutical ingredients) and retail, with growth primarily driven by new product sales and distribution, growth in latin america, as well as favorable economic trends and strategic promotional efforts in key markets. these increases were partially offset by the adverse impact of voluntary product recalls in imaging and lower volume sales within respiratory, in addition to the negative changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $93 million. operating income and operating margin decreased $86 million and 1.2 percentage points, respectively, as compared to 2005. the increased volume in medical devices &amp; supplies, discussed above, was more than offset by unfavorable manufacturing performance primarily in respiratory and imaging, as a result of lower volumes and higher expenses primarily associated with voluntary product recalls, as well as weakness in retail of $40 million. also contributing to the decrease in operating income, although to a lesser extent, was additional investments in research and development and selling expenses. operating income was adversely impacted by a charge of $63 million related to purchased in-process research and development, incremental stock option charges required under sfas no. 123r of $37 million, $2 million of charges related to the proposed separation and a $31 million negative 46 impact related to foreign currency exchange rates. additionally, operating income for 2006 included a gain on divestiture of $48 million, primarily relating to a sale of a business within medical devices and supplies. net revenue for healthcare increased $433 million or 4.8% in 2005 as compared to 2004. this increase resulted primarily from growth in existing businesses and, to a lesser extent, favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $141 million. growth in healthcare's underlying businesses was principally driven by increased revenue within medical devices &amp; supplies which was largely the result of increased sales volume in the international division, primarily in europe, due to a sales force investment and sales growth in vessel sealing, laparoscopy, and stapling. increased sales at the surgical division within medical devices &amp; supplies also strongly contributed, due to enhanced contracting with group purchasing organizations, increased acceptance of laparoscopic gastric by-pass procedures and increased adoption of ligasure device. pharmaceuticals also contributed to the increase in revenue, although to a lesser extent. these increases were partially offset by decreased sales in retail primarily due to a difficult competitive environment and customer consolidations. the decreases in operating income and operating margin in 2005 as compared to 2004 were due primarily to a $277 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005, associated with the adverse decision by the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit on a previously disclosed legal matter. (refer to note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.) this charge, combined with declines in the retail division as a result of the competitive environment mentioned above as well as increased material and transportation costs, was offset by substantial increases from other divisions, specifically the international and surgical divisions within medical devices &amp; supplies as well as within pharmaceutical. increases in these divisions were due to strong sales growth as mentioned above, combined with a favorable product mix. also positively impacting the segment were reduced administrative expenses at the segment level, as well as favorable foreign exchange rates of $41 million. engineered products and services net revenue, operating income and operating margin for engineered products and services for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 revenue from product sales $ 5,625 $ 5,137 $ 4,582 service revenue 1,317 1,319 1,425 net revenue $ 6,942 $ 6,456 $ 6,007 operating income $ 676 $ 672 $ 620 operating margin 9.7 % 10.4 % 10.3 % net revenue for engineered products and services increased $486 million or 7.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by flow control as a result of strong project volume in the pacific region and favorable market conditions in asia and north america, as well as increased selling prices in electrical &amp; metal products due to higher costs of copper. to a lesser extent, tyco fire &amp; building products experienced growth in the industrial and commercial construction markets and increased price realization. the above increases in revenue were partially offset by a decrease at infrastructure services as a result of a strategic decision to be more selective in bidding for new projects, which has resulted in fewer but more profitable projects, and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $25 million. operating income remained relatively level in 2006 as compared to 2005. both the revenue growth at flow control and fire &amp; building products, as well as favorable copper spreads in electrical &amp; 47 metal products and higher margin projects at infrastructure services contributed positively to operating income in 2006. offsetting this growth was a $100 million charge relating to the voluntary replacement program for certain sprinkler heads (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements) and incremental stock option charges of $17 million required under sfas no. 123r. net revenue for engineered products and services increased $449 million or 7.5% in 2005 as compared to 2004. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by increased selling prices in electrical &amp; metal products due to higher costs of steel and other raw materials. in addition, flow control and, to a lesser extent, tyco fire &amp; building products experienced growth in the industrial and commercial construction markets. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $167 million also contributed to the increase in revenue. the above increases in revenue were partially offset by a decrease at infrastructure services as a result of a strategic decision to be more selective in bidding for new projects, which has resulted in fewer but more profitable projects. the increases in operating income and operating margin in 2005 as compared to 2004 were due primarily to increased volume and demand within the industrial and commercial markets, along with the impact of operational excellence initiatives, cost reductions from prior period restructuring programs and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $21 million. these increases more than offset the impact of higher raw material costs. additionally, 2005 operating income includes $4 million of net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges as compared to the $62 million of net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges in 2004. corporate corporate net revenue was $29 million and $25 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, which related to the tgn business which was sold in the third quarter of 2005. corporate expense was $400 million, $255 million and $482 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. corporate expense for 2006 includes $162 million related to the proposed separation and incremental stock option charges of $32 million required under sfas no. 123r. corporate expense also includes income related to a settlement with a former executive of $72 million as well as $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. operating income for 2005 and 2004 has been restated to reflect additional compensation expense of $24 million and $85 million, respectively, related to the review of prior period stock option grant practices and equity plan compliance. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. corporate expense for 2005 includes a $301 million gain on the sale of the tgn business and tgn operating losses of $54 million. in addition, corporate expenses for 2005 included a $50 million charge representing the fines and penalties that the company paid to resolve the matters raised in the sec investigation that commenced in june 2002, as well as a $70 million charge for estimated legacy contingencies related to former executives' employment. corporate expense for 2004 includes net charges of $14 million, which consists of charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $8 million and net restructuring charges of $6 million primarily attributable to severance related to the relocation of the corporate headquarters. expense also included $73 million of operating losses related to the tgn. interest income and expense interest income was $134 million in 2006, as compared to $123 million and $91 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. interest expense was $713 million in 2006, as compared to $815 million in 2005 and $956 million in 2004. the decrease in interest expense in 2006 is primarily driven by lower debt balances, partially offset by the impact of higher interest rates on our interest rate swap program as compared to 2005. 48 the decrease in interest expense in 2005 over 2004 is primarily the result of lower debt balances, partially offset by the impact of higher interest rates on our interest rate swap program compared to 2004. the weighted-average rates of interest on total debt outstanding during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 5.9%, 5.6% and 5.2%, respectively. other expense, net during 2006, other expense, net consisted primarily of a loss relating to the write-down of certain investments to their net realizable value. during 2005, other expense, net included a loss on the retirement of debt. the company repurchased $1,241 million principal amount of its outstanding 2.75% convertible senior debentures for $1,823 million and $750 million principal amount of its outstanding 3.125% convertible senior debentures for $1,147 million. these repurchases resulted in a $1,013 million loss on the retirement of debt, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. also during 2005, other expense, net included income of $109 million related to a court-ordered restitution award. on september 12, 2002, indictments were filed in the supreme court of the state of new york against mr. l. dennis kozlowski, our former chairman and chief executive officer, and mr. mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director (together, the "defendants"), alleging enterprise corruption, fraud, conspiracy, grand larceny, falsifying certain business records and other crimes. on june 17, 2005, a jury convicted the defendants on 22 of 23 counts in the indictment. on september 19, 2005, the defendants were sentenced in new york state supreme court to serve eight and one third years to twenty five years in prison and to make joint restitution to the company in the amount of $134 million, resulting from the larceny convictions. the restitution award is comprised of $109 million of previously expensed compensation made to the defendants and reported as other expense, net in prior years and $25 million related to a loan receivable from one of the defendants which had been and remains reflected in the company's consolidated financial statements as a receivable. the defendants have filed a notice of appeal of the convictions. the company considered the collectibility of the restitution award and assessed the likelihood of the defendants' success upon appeal of the larceny convictions, which, if successful, could result in a change to the restitution order, and has concluded that receipt of the restitution award is probable. the court ordered the restitution payment to be made by no later than one year from the date of sentencing. tyco has initiated the process of collecting the restitution payment owed, subject to the pending appeal. during october 2006, the company received payment of $38 million relating to the restitution and expects to receive the remaining amount in the second quarter of 2007. during 2004, other expense, net consisted primarily of a loss on the retirement of debt. the company repurchased $303 million of its 7.2% notes due 2008 for cash of $341 million, which resulted in a $38 million loss, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. additionally, the company repurchased $517 million of its outstanding 2.75% convertible senior debentures with a 2008 put option. the total purchase price paid was $750 million and the repurchase resulted in a $241 million loss on the retirement of debt, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. income taxes our effective income tax rate was 16.4%, 26.7% and 27.8% for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the decrease in the effective tax rate from 2005 to 2006 was primarily the result of additional releases of deferred tax asset valuation allowances, as a result of improved historical and projected profitability in certain jurisdictions, and a $127 million favorable adjustment to correct prior year tax reserves on legacy tax matters. the decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is primarily the result of the release of valuation allowances, benefits realized related to the tgn divestiture, as well as the court-ordered restitution award related to certain former executives for which there is no tax obligation 49 and, to a lesser extent, increased profitability in operations in jurisdictions with lower tax rates. this decrease is partially offset by an increase in charges for which no tax benefit was available such as the loss on retirement of debt, asset impairments and the estimated settlement of the sec enforcement action. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $1,731 million and $1,871 million at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. we believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets. the valuation allowance was calculated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 109, "accounting for income taxes," which requires a valuation allowance be established or maintained when it is "more likely than not" that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. further, management has reviewed with tax counsel the issues raised by these taxing authorities and the adequacy of these recorded amounts. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the united states internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded. while the timing and ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain, the company anticipates that certain of these matters could be resolved during 2007. the irs continues to audit the years 1997 to 2000. in 2004 the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns, resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. these adjustments did not have a material impact on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the company. during 2006, the company has developed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that acceptance of these adjustments is probable and accordingly has recorded them in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. except for earnings that are currently distributed, no additional provision has been made for u.s. or non-u.s. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or for unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested, the investments are essentially permanent in duration, or the company has concluded that no additional tax liability will arise as a result of distribution of such earnings. a liability could arise if amounts are distributed by such subsidiaries or if such subsidiaries are ultimately disposed. it is not practicable to estimate the additional income taxes related to permanently reinvested earnings or the basis differences related to investments in subsidiaries. 50 discontinued operations and divestitures discontinued operations during 2006, the company consummated the sale of the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses as well as the a&amp;e product business for $975 million and $6 million in gross cash proceeds, respectively. working capital and other adjustments resulted in net proceeds of $882 million for the sale of the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses. during 2006, the company also recorded a $30 million receivable due from the purchaser of the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses based on the decline of average resin prices during fiscal year 2006, as contemplated in the definitive sale agreement. this amount is payable to tyco no later than january 2007. net cash proceeds received for the sale of the a&amp;e products business was $2 million, which does not include working capital provisions which are expected to be settled prior to the end of calendar year 2006. both businesses met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. during 2006, the company recorded a $261 million and $26 million pre-tax loss on sale from discontinued operations related to the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses and a&amp;e products business, respectively, which include $275 million and $22 million, respectively, of pre-tax impairment charges to write the businesses down to their fair values less costs to sell. fair values used for the respective impairment assessments were based on existing market conditions and the terms and conditions included or expected to be included in the respective sale agreements. during 2006, the company approved a plan to divest the printed circuit group ("pcg") business, a component of the electronics segment, and also entered into a definitive sale agreement to sell pcg for $226 million in cash. during 2006, the company recorded a $4 million pre-tax loss on sale from discontinued operations for pcg related to the divestiture of the pcg spain business as well as certain other costs to sell. the sale of pcg was completed in october 2006 and the company expects to record a gain on the sale of approximately $45 million. see note 28 to the consolidated financial statements. the pcg business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. in 2005, tyco announced its intent to explore the divesture of its plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses, as well as the a&amp;e products business, a global manufacturer of plastic film, specialty tapes and adhesives, coated products and garment hangers. as a result of consideration for potential sale and deteriorating operating results in the a&amp;e products business, the company performed an interim assessment of the recoverability of both goodwill and long-lived assets and determined that the book value of certain long-lived assets in the a&amp;e products business was greater than their estimated fair value and consequently recorded a long-lived asset impairment of $40 million and goodwill impairment charge of $162 million. fair value used for the impairment assessment was based on probability-weighted expected future cash flow of the assets. during 2005, the company divested 8 businesses which were reported as discontinued operations within fire and security, engineered products and services and the plastics and adhesives business segment. the company reported losses on sale or additional impairments to write the carrying value of such assets down to their estimated fair value less costs to sell of $60 million during 2005. during 2004, the company reported losses on the sale of discontinued operations of $132 million to write the carrying value of such assets down to their fair value less cost to sell. for the additional 8 businesses in 2005 and the divested businesses in 2004, fair value used for the impairment assessment was primarily based on the terms and conditions included or expected to be included in the sales agreements. 51 (gains) losses on divestitures during 2004, the company divested twenty-one and liquidated four non-core businesses across all business segments primarily within fire and security. during 2004, the company recorded net losses and impairments on divestitures of $116 million in continuing operations in connection with the divestiture or write-down to fair value of certain held for sale businesses. during 2005, tyco agreed to sell the tgn, its undersea fiber optic telecommunication network. the sale was consummated on june 30, 2005. as part of the sale transaction, tyco received gross cash proceeds of $130 million, and the purchaser assumed certain liabilities. in connection with this sale, tyco recorded a $301 million gain which is reflected in (gains) losses on divestitures in the consolidated statement of income for 2005. the company has presented the operations of the tgn in continuing operations as the criteria for discontinued operations were not met. during 2005, the company divested 10 businesses that were reported as continuing operations in fire and security, healthcare and engineered products and services. the company recorded net losses and impairments on divestitures of $32 million, including a $3 million charge reflected in cost of sales, in connection with the divestiture and liquidation of these businesses, as well as the write-down to estimated fair value of certain held for sale businesses. during 2006, the company divested 6 businesses that were reported as continuing operations in fire and security and healthcare. the company recorded net gains on divestitures of $46 million in connection with the divestiture of these businesses, less $2 million of divestiture charges related to the write-down to estimated fair value and costs to sell certain other held for sale businesses. for the divested businesses during 2006, 2005 and 2004, fair value used for the impairment assessment was primarily based on the terms and conditions included or expected to be included in the sales agreements. acquisitions during 2006, tyco's healthcare segment acquired over 90% ownership in floreane medical implants, s.a. ("floreane") for approximately $123 million in cash, net of cash acquired of $3 million. floreane is an innovator in the development of surgical support implants for parietal, urological and gynecological surgery. the remaining outstanding shares would be acquired if they become available. the company recorded a $3 million in-process research and development charge in conjunction with the acquisition. during 2006, tyco's healthcare segment also acquired over 50% ownership of airox s.a. ("airox") for approximately $59 million, net of cash acquired of $4 million. airox is a leading european company in the home respiratory ventilation systems business. tyco expects to acquire the remaining airox shares in a mandatory tender offer. the initial share purchase and the subsequent tender offer combined are expected to total approximately $108 million. the company has also recorded an $11 million in-process research and development charge in conjunction with the acquisition. the charge relates to the development of second generation technology which has not yet obtained regulatory approval. as of the acquisition date, the in-process research and development was not considered to be technologically feasible or to have any alternative future use. during 2006, tyco's healthcare segment also acquired confluent surgical, inc. ("confluent"). the total purchase price is expected to be $246 million. as of september 29, 2006, the company has paid approximately $200 million in cash, net of cash acquired of $12 million. the company has also deposited approximately $34 million of the total purchase price into an escrow account related to closing balance sheet adjustments and certain indemnifications to be resolved through fiscal 2008. the company recorded a $49 million in-process research and development charge in conjunction with the acquisition related to technology which confluent is developing for numerous applications across 52 several surgical disciplines which have not yet received regulatory approval. as of the acquisition date, the in-process research and development was not considered to be technologically feasible or to have any alternative future use. cash paid for other acquisitions in 2006 totaled $31 million, net of $8 million cash acquired. in july 2005, tyco's healthcare segment acquired vivant medical inc. ("vivant"), a developer of microwave ablation medical technology. the transaction is valued at approximately $66 million cash, with up to approximately $35 million additional cash to be paid in the future based on achieving certain milestones. cash paid, net of cash acquired, for various other acquisitions totaled $16 million. during 2004, the company completed the acquisition of two businesses within engineered products and services and fire and security for an aggregate cost of $9 million. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash from operations. the results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in tyco's consolidated results from the respective acquisition dates. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cumulative effect of accounting change during 2006, the company adopted financial accounting standards board interpretation ("fin") no. 47, "accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143." accordingly, the company has recognized asset retirement obligations of $32 million and property, plant and equipment, net of $10 million in its consolidated balance sheet at september 29, 2006. in addition, the company recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change which resulted in a $14 million after-tax loss ($22 million pre-tax). refer to note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on fin no. 47. during 2005, the company changed the measurement date for its pension and postretirement benefit plans, from september 30 th to august 31 st , effective october 1, 2004. the company believes that the one-month change of measurement date is a preferable change as it allows management adequate time to evaluate and report the actuarial information in the company's consolidated financial statements under the accelerated reporting deadlines. as a result of this change, the company recorded a $21 million after-tax gain ($28 million pre-tax) cumulative effect of accounting change. refer to note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on retirement plans. change in fiscal year and reporting calendar alignment effective october 1, 2004, tyco changed its fiscal year end from a calendar fiscal year ending september 30 to a "52-53 week" year ending on the last friday of september, such that each quarterly period will be 13 weeks in length. in addition, certain of the company's subsidiaries had consistently closed their books up to one month prior to the company's fiscal period end. these subsidiaries now report results for the same period as the reported results of the consolidated company. the impact of this change was not material to the consolidated financial statements. net income for the transition period related to this change was $26 million and was reported within shareholders' equity during 2005. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of 53 assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. the following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. depreciation and amortization method for security monitoring systems tyco generally considers its electronic security assets in three asset pools: internally generated residential systems, internally generated commercial systems and customer accounts acquired through the adt dealer program. the determination of the depreciable lives of subscriber systems, as defined below, included in property, plant and equipment, and the amortizable lives of customer contracts and related customer relationships included in intangible assets, are primarily based on historical attrition rates, third-party lifing studies and the useful life of the underlying tangible asset. the realizable value and remaining useful lives of these assets could be impacted by changes in customer attrition rates. if the attrition rates were to rise, tyco may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization. with respect to tyco's depreciation policy for security monitoring systems installed in residential and commercial customer premises, the costs of these systems are combined in separate pools for internally generated residential and internally generated commercial account customers (collectively "subscriber systems"), and generally depreciated over ten to fourteen years. tyco concluded that for residential and commercial account pools the straight-line method of depreciation over a ten to fourteen-year period continues to be appropriate given the observed actual attrition data for these pools. tyco purchases residential security monitoring contracts from an external network of independent dealers who operate under the adt dealer program. the purchase price of these customer contracts is recorded as an intangible asset (i.e., contracts and related customer relationships). intangible assets arising from the adt dealer program are amortized in pools determined by the month of contract acquisition on an accelerated basis over the period and pattern of economic benefit that is expected to be obtained from the customer relationship. tyco believes that the accelerated method that presently best achieves the matching objective described above is the double-declining balance method based on a ten-year life for the first eight years of the estimated life of the customer relationships converting to the straight-line method of amortization for the remaining four years of the estimated relationship period. actual attrition data is regularly reviewed in order to assess the continued applicability of the accelerated method of amortization described above. attrition rates for customers in our worldwide electronic security services business were 13.8%, 14.8% and 15.1% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. revenue recognition contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, large security intruder systems, undersea fiber-optic cable systems and other construction related projects are recorded primarily on the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon contracted revenue and related estimated cost to completion. the risk of this methodology is its dependence upon estimates of costs to completion, which are subject to the uncertainties inherent in long-term contracts. revisions in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits in the current period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they first become determinable. if estimates are inaccurate, there is risk that our revenue and profits for the period may be overstated or understated. product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other markets participants. rebates are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. loss contingencies accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. the accruals are based on 54 judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarially determined estimates. additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. income taxes in determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. these estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. in estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future state, federal and international pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. we currently have recorded significant valuation allowances that we intend to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. our income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. the realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. if a change in a valuation allowance occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition, such adjustment may impact goodwill rather than the income tax provision. changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. management is not aware of any such changes that would have a material effect on the company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if the tax liabilities relate to tax uncertainties existing at the date of the acquisition of a business, the adjustment of such tax liabilities will result in an adjustment to the goodwill recorded at the date of acquisition. goodwill and intangible assets goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually and more frequently if a triggering event occurs. in performing this assessment, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. since judgment is involved in performing goodwill valuation analyses, there is risk that the carrying value of our goodwill may be overstated or understated. 55 we elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for all reporting units. when testing for goodwill impairment, the company follows the guidance prescribed in sfas no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets." first, the company performs a step i goodwill impairment test to identify a potential impairment. in doing so, the company compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and a step ii goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. in the step ii goodwill impairment test, the company compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. if the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. the company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. disruptions to our business such as end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, the divestiture of a significant component of a reporting unit and market capitalization declines may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment first step valuation analysis for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. there were no goodwill impairments related to continuing operations during 2006, 2005 and 2004. goodwill impairments included in loss from discontinued operations in 2005 totaled $162 million. long-lived assets assets held and used by the company, including property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. for purposes of evaluating the recoverability of long-lived assets to be held and used, a recoverability test is performed based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. impairments to long-lived assets to be disposed of are recorded based upon the fair value of the applicable assets. since judgment is involved in determining the fair value and useful lives of long-lived assets, there is a risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may be overstated or understated. pension and postretirement benefits our pension expense and obligations are developed from actuarial valuations. two critical assumptions in determining pension expense and obligations are the discount rate and expected long-term return on plan assets. we evaluate these assumptions at least annually. other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover and are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. actual results may differ from actuarial assumptions. the discount rate represents the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments and is used to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows for benefit obligations under our pension plans. a decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of pension benefit obligations. a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase our present value of pension obligations by approximately $225 million. we consider the current and expected asset allocations of our pension plans, as well as historical and expected long-term rates of return on those types of plan assets, in determining the expected long-term return on plan assets. a 50 basis point decrease in the expected long-term return on plan assets would increase our pension expense by approximately $20 million. 56 liquidity and capital resources the sources of our cash flow from operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations for the years ended september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 and 2004, as restated, were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 (restated) 2004 (restated) cash flows from operating activities: operating income $ 5,474 $ 5,768 $ 5,146 non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges (credits), net 9 (13 ) 16 (gains) losses on divestitures (44 ) (271 ) 111 in-process research and development 63 depreciation and amortization (1) 2,065 2,084 2,098 non-cash compensation expense 275 99 121 deferred income taxes 72 (28 ) 167 provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 174 232 317 other, net (2) (47 ) 148 79 net increase in working capital (1,069 ) (61 ) (873 ) interest income 134 123 91 interest expense (713 ) (815 ) (956 ) income tax expense (799 ) (1,112 ) (1,112 ) net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,594 $ 6,154 $ 5,205 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net (3) $ (1,514 ) $ (1,263 ) $ (987 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 9 18 929 acquisition of customer accounts (adt dealer program) (373 ) (328 ) (254 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (19 ) (47 ) (104 ) voluntary pension contributions 2 115 567 (1) includes depreciation expense of $1,415 million, $1,431 million and $1,407 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively and amortization of intangible assets of $650 million, $653 million and $691 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (2) includes the add-back of losses on the retirement of debt of $2 million, $1,013 million and $284 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (3) includes net proceeds of $55 million, $91 million and $140 million received for the sale/disposition of property, plant and equipment in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the net change in total working capital was a cash decrease of $1,069 million in 2006. the components of this change are set forth in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the change in working capital included an increase of $680 million in inventories and a $332 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities, primarily related to decreased accrued legal and audit fees, partially offset by an increase in annual employee bonus compensation. the provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory decreased from $232 million during the year ended september 30, 2005 to $174 million for the current period. this decrease was driven by improvements across all segments, particularly due to improved accounts receivable aging, an overall improved credit profile of the customer base, and better collections. consequently, our allowance for doubtful accounts decreased from $421 million at september 30, 2005 to $336 million at september 29, 2006. 57 cash flows from operating activities and other cash flow items by segment for the year ended september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): electronics fire and security healthcare engineered products and services corporate and other total cash flows from operating activities: operating income (loss) $ 1,808 $ 1,190 $ 2,200 $ 676 $ (400 ) $ 5,474 non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges, net 3 1 4 1 9 losses (gains) on divestitures 2 1 (48 ) 1 (44 ) in-process research and development 63 63 depreciation 463 567 270 104 11 1,415 intangible assets amortization 70 514 64 2 650 depreciation and amortization 533 1,081 334 106 11 2,065 non-cash compensation expense 65 56 58 26 70 275 deferred income taxes 72 72 provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 67 31 48 28 174 net (increase) decrease in working capital and other (92 ) (126 ) (605 ) 25 (318 ) (1,116 ) interest income 134 134 interest expense (713 ) (713 ) income tax expense (799 ) (799 ) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 2,386 $ 2,234 $ 2,054 $ 862 $ (1,942 ) $ 5,594 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net $ (549 ) $ (433 ) $ (429 ) $ (98 ) $ (5 ) $ (1,514 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 9 9 acquisition of customer accounts (adt dealer program) (373 ) (373 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (4 ) (6 ) (8 ) (1 ) (19 ) voluntary pension contributions 2 2 during 2006, the company completed the sale of our plastics and adhesives segment, previously announced in 2005. our plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses were sold for net proceeds of $882 million and the a&amp;e products group was sold for $2 million in net cash proceeds. during 2006, we made additional cash outflows of approximately $450 million for the resolution of certain previously accrued legal matters, including a patent dispute in the healthcare segment, and a cash payment of $50 million to settle the previously disclosed sec enforcement action. we will continue to use excess cash to repurchase shares. during 2006, we repaid and terminated one of our synthetic lease facilities for a total cash payment of $203 million, reducing principal debt and minority interest by $191 million and $10 million, respectively. also, we utilized $1.0 billion in cash and $700 million in credit facility borrowings for scheduled repayments of public notes. 58 during 2006, we paid $413 million related to acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, including a net $200 million and a net $123 million related to the previously discussed acquisitions of confluent and floreane, respectively, within tyco's healthcare segment. we continue to fund capital expenditures to improve the cost structure of our businesses, to invest in new processes and technology, and to maintain high quality production standards. capital spending increased to $1.6 billion in 2006 from $1.4 billion in 2005. the level of capital expenditures in 2007 is expected to exceed spending levels in 2006 and is also expected to exceed depreciation. in october 2006, the company exercised its right to buy five cable laying sea vessels that were previously included under an off-balance sheet leasing arrangement for $280 million. this cash paid will be included in capital expenditures for 2007. income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the year was $862 million. during 2006, we repurchased 95 million of our common shares for $2.5 billion, completing the $1.5 billion share repurchase program previously approved by the board of directors in july 2005 and continuing the new $2.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in may 2006. during 2006, 2005 and 2004, tyco paid $373 million, $328 million and $254 million of cash, respectively, to acquire approximately 401,000, 364,000 and 302,000 customer contracts for electronic security services through the adt dealer program. during 2006, 2005 and 2004 we paid out $68 million, $171 million and $266 million, respectively, in cash related to restructuring activities. these amounts include $7 million, $16 million and $43 million, respectively, reported in discontinued operations. see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our restructuring activities. subsequent to year end, we launched a $600 million company-wide restructuring program. we expect to incur approximately $500 million of charges in 2007, and we expect that the total cash expenditures for this program will be approximately $450 million, of which $250 million is expected in 2007. during 2006, 2005 and 2004, we paid $101 million, $48 million and $107 million, respectively, in cash for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities. of the total cash paid, $82 million, $1 million and $3 million, respectively, was reported in discontinued operations. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet and other contingencies. at september 29, 2006 holdback liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets were $112 million, of which $23 million are included in accrued and other current liabilities and $89 million are included in other liabilities. at september 29, 2006, $40 million of acquisition liabilities remained on our consolidated balance sheets, of which $14 million are included in accrued and other current liabilities and $26 million are included in other liabilities. as previously mentioned, in january 2006, the company announced that its board of directors approved a plan to separate the company into three separate, publicly traded companies. in connection with the proposed separation, we paid $96 million in separation costs during 2006. we expect that, during 2007, we will incur the remaining cash outflows related to the proposed separation which will be largely attributable to tax restructuring, debt refinancing, professional services and employee-related costs. in october 2006, the company completed the sale of its pcg business, which was part of the electronics segment, for $226 million and expects to record a gain on the sale of approximately $45 million. 59 capitalization shareholders' equity was $35.4 billion or $17.78 per share, at september 29, 2006, compared to $32.5 billion or $16.14 per share, at september 30, 2005. this increase was due primarily to net income of $3.7 billion, the exchange of convertible debt due 2018 of $1.2 billion, and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $619 million. these increases were partially offset by the repurchase of common shares by a subsidiary of $2.5 billion as previously mentioned and dividends declared of $807 million. at september 29, 2006, total debt decreased $2.3 billion to $10.2 billion, as compared to $12.5 billion at september 30, 2005. total debt as a percentage of total capitalization (total debt and shareholders' equity) was 22% at september 29, 2006 and 28% at september 30, 2005. our debt levels significantly decreased as compared to september 30, 2005 primarily due to the redemption of $1.2 billion of our series a 2.75% convertible senior debentures due 2018 with a 2008 put option, and the scheduled $1.0 billion repayment of our 6.375% public notes. also, as mentioned, we repaid and terminated one of our synthetic lease facilities reducing our principal debt by $203 million. our cash balance decreased to $2.9 billion at september 29, 2006, as compared to $3.2 billion at september 30, 2005. the decrease in cash was primarily due to the repurchase of shares under the previously-announced programs, and the scheduled debt repayments referred to above, capital expenditures, and to a lesser extent, dividend payments. the majority of these decreases were partially offset by cash flows from operations. tigsa holds a $1.0 billion 5-year revolving credit facility expiring on december 16, 2009. tigsa also holds a $1.5 billion 3-year revolving bank credit facility which was amended during 2006 to extend the maturity date from december 22, 2006 to december 21, 2007. additionally, tigsa holds a $500 million 3-year unsecured letter of credit facility expiring on june 15, 2007. at september 29, 2006, letters of credit of $475 million have been issued under the $500 million facility and $25 million remains available for issuance. also, during 2006, tigsa borrowed $700 million under its $1.5 billion 3-year revolving bank credit facility, with the entire proceeds used to repay its 5.8% public notes due 2006 at their maturity on august 1, 2006. there were no amounts borrowed under the other credit facilities at september 29, 2006. the company's bank credit agreements contain a number of financial covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization and minimum levels of net worth, and limits on the incurrence of liens. the company's outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. none of these covenants are presently considered restrictive to the company's operations. the company is currently in compliance with all of its debt covenants. as previously discussed, in may 2006, the board of directors approved a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program. pursuant to the new program, we may repurchase tyco shares from time to time in open market purchases at prevailing market prices, in negotiated transactions off the market, or pursuant to an approved 10b5-1 trading plan in accordance with applicable regulations. a rule 10b5-1 trading plan permits the company to repurchase its shares during periods when the company would not normally be active in the trading market due to insider trading laws, provided the plan is adopted when the company is not aware of material non-public information. under a rule 10b5-1 trading plan, we would be unable to repurchase shares above a pre-determined price per share. additionally, the maximum number of shares that we may purchase each day would be governed by rule 10b-18. on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.0125 to $0.10 per share. as a result, dividend payments were $806 million in 2006. following the proposed separation, we expect that all three companies will be dividend-paying companies. 60 also, following the proposed separation, it is anticipated that all three companies will be capitalized to provide financial flexibility to take advantage of future growth opportunities. they are expected to have financial policies, balance sheet and credit metrics that are commensurate with solid investment grade ratings. tyco will continue to follow financial policies that are consistent with its current credit ratings until the planned transactions take place. the company's existing debt is expected to be allocated among the three companies or refinanced. any existing or potential liabilities that cannot be associated with a particular entity will be allocated appropriately to each of the businesses, and a sharing agreement among the three companies will be established. the following table details our debt ratings at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005: short term long term moody's prime-3 baa 3 standard &amp; poor's a2 bbb+ fitch f2 bbb+ the security ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. commitments and contingencies contractual obligations contractual obligations and commitments for debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and other obligations at september 29, 2006 is as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total debt (1) $ 782 $ 820 $ 2,555 $ 14 $ 1,002 $ 4,833 $ 10,006 capital leases 26 27 22 9 7 76 167 operating leases 516 405 302 214 158 499 2,094 purchase obligations (2) 222 24 10 10 7 24 297 total contractual cash obligations (3) $ 1,546 $ 1,276 $ 2,889 $ 247 $ 1,174 $ 5,432 $ 12,564 (1) excludes interest. (2) purchase obligations consist of commitments for purchases of good and services. (3) other long-term liabilities primarily consist of the following: pension and postretirement costs, income taxes, warranty and environmental liabilities and are excluded from this table. we are unable to estimate the timing of payment for these items due to the inherent uncertainties of obligations of this type. the minimum required contributions to our pension plans are expected to be approximately $151 million in 2007 and we expect to pay $26 million in 2007 related to postretirement benefit plans. at september 29, 2006, the company had outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees in the amount of $1.3 billion. at september 29, 2006, tigsa had unsecured credit facilities of $1.5 billion due december 21, 2007, and $1.0 billion due december 16, 2009, of which $1.8 billion was undrawn and available (see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, certain of the company's operating subsidiaries have uncommitted overdraft and similar types of facilities, which total $624 million, of which $606 million was undrawn and available at september 29, 2006. these facilities expire at various 61 dates through the year 2013, most of which are renewable and are established primarily within our international operations. at september 29, 2006, the company had a contingent purchase price liability of $80 million related to the 2001 acquisition of com-net by electronics. this represents the maximum amount payable to the former shareholders of com-net only after the construction and installation of a communications system for the state of florida is finished and the state has approved the system based on the guidelines set forth in the contract. a liability for this contingency has not been recorded in tyco's consolidated financial statements as the outcome of this contingency cannot be reasonably determined. in june 2004, tigsa entered into a $500 million 3-year unsecured letter of credit facility due june 15, 2007. the facility provides for the issuance of letters of credit, supported by a related line of credit facility. tigsa may only borrow under the line of credit agreement to reimburse the bank for obligations with respect to letters of credit issued under this facility. the covenants under this facility are substantially similar to tigsa's bank credit facilities entered into during december 2003 and the indenture related to tigsa's 6% notes due 2013 issued in november 2003. tigsa would pay interest on any outstanding borrowings at a variable interest rate, based on the bank's base rate or the eurodollar rate, as defined. upon the occurrence of certain credit events, the interest rate on the outstanding borrowings becomes fixed. the issuance of letters of credit under this credit facility during 2004 enabled the company to release approximately $480 million of restricted cash and investments. as of september 29, 2006, letters of credit of $475 million have been issued under the $500 million credit facility and $25 million remains available for issuance. there were no amounts borrowed under this credit facility at september 29, 2006. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. legal matters class actions for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's securities class actions, shareholder derivative litigation, erisa litigation and investigation, and litigation against former senior management, see item 3. legal proceedings. we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. while we may from time to time seek to engage plaintiff's counsel in settlement discussions, we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. investigations for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to governmental investigations related to tyco see item 3. legal proceedings subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities. we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government instrumentalities 62 (which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss, or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. on april 17, 2006, the company reached a settlement that closes the sec enforcement division's investigation of the company regarding certain accounting practices and other actions by former tyco officers. on april 25, 2006, the united states district court for the southern district of new york entered a final judgment in which the company was ordered to pay $1 in disgorgement and a fine of $50 million. during the third quarter of 2006, the company satisfied the judgment which was accrued in 2005. intellectual property and antitrust litigation the company is party to a number of patent infringement and antitrust actions that may require the company to pay damage awards. tyco has assessed the status of these matters and has recorded liabilities related to certain of these matters where appropriate. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's intellectual property and antitrust litigation, see item 3. legal proceedings intellectual property and antitrust litigation. environmental matters for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's environmental matters, see item 1. business environmental matters. asbestos matters tyco and some of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. consistent with the national trend of increased asbestos-related litigation, the company has observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits in the past several years. the majority of these cases have been filed against subsidiaries in healthcare and engineered products and services. a limited number of the cases allege premises liability, based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos while on a subsidiary's property. a majority of the cases involve product liability claims, based principally on allegations of past distribution of heat-resistant industrial products incorporating asbestos or the past distribution of industrial valves that incorporated asbestos-containing gaskets or packing. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. tyco's involvement in asbestos cases has been limited because its subsidiaries did not mine or produce asbestos. furthermore, in the company's experience, a large percentage of these claims were never substantiated and have been dismissed by the courts. the company will continue to vigorously defend these lawsuits and the company has not suffered an adverse verdict in a trial court proceeding related to asbestos claims. when appropriate, the company settles claims; however, the total amount paid in any year to settle and defend all asbestos claims has been immaterial. as of september 29, 2006, there were approximately 15,500 asbestos liability cases pending against the company and its subsidiaries. the company estimates its pending asbestos claims that were incurred but not reported, as well as related insurance and indemnification recoveries. the company's estimate of the liability for pending and future claims is based on claim experience over the past five years and covers claims expected to be filed over the next seven years. the company believes that it has adequate amounts recorded related to these matters. while it is not possible at this time to determine with certainty the ultimate outcome of these asbestos-related proceedings, the company believes that the final outcome of all 63 known and anticipated future claims, after taking into account its substantial indemnification rights and insurance coverage, will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. income taxes tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded. while the timing and ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain, the company anticipates that certain of these matters could be resolved during 2007. compliance matters tyco has received and responded to various allegations that certain improper payments were made by tyco subsidiaries in recent years. during 2005, tyco reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it has taken in response to the allegations. tyco also informed the doj and the sec that it has retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, that it would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies, and that it would present its factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. the company has and will continue to have communications with the doj and sec to provide updates on the baseline review being conducted by outside counsel, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper payments identified by the company in the course of its ongoing compliance activities. at this time, tyco cannot predict the outcome of these matters reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of any or all of these matters. other matters the company is a party to a contract dispute arising from earth tech's contract with the city of phoenix, arizona for the expansion of the city's 91 st avenue waste water treatment plant. both earth tech and the city of phoenix have filed lawsuits in the local county superior court alleging the other party has breached the contract. at this time, tyco cannot predict the outcome of this matter and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of this matter. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's other legal matters, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. backlog at september 29, 2006, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $14.2 billion, compared to a backlog of $13.5 billion at september 30, 2005. we expect that approximately 77% of our backlog at 64 september 29, 2006 will be filled during 2007. backlog by reportable industry segment at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 is as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 fire and security $ 7,000 $ 6,732 engineered products and services 4,167 4,007 electronics 2,711 2,496 healthcare 280 272 $ 14,158 $ 13,507 within fire and security, backlog increased primarily as a result of strong bookings in north america and europe. backlog for fire and security includes recurring revenue-in-force, which represents twelve months' fees for monitoring and maintenance services under contract in the security business. the amount of recurring revenue-in-force at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 was $3.65 billion and $3.55 billion, respectively. backlog within engineered products and services increased primarily as a result of increased orders at flow control. within electronics, backlog increased as a result of increased bookings in most key end markets. backlog in healthcare represents unfilled orders, which, in the nature of the business, are normally shipped shortly after purchase orders are received. we do not view backlog in healthcare to be a significant indicator of the level of future sales activity. off-balance sheet arrangements sale of accounts receivable tyco utilized several programs under which it sold participating interests in accounts receivable to investors who, in turn, purchased and received ownership and security interests in those receivables. these transactions qualified as true sales. the sale proceeds were less than the face amount of accounts receivable sold, and the discount from the face amount was included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. such discount aggregated $18 million, or 3.1% of the weighted-average balance of the receivables outstanding, during 2004. during 2004, the company reduced outstanding balances under its accounts receivable programs by $929 million, of which $812 million related to its corporate accounts receivable programs which were terminated in 2005. no amounts were utilized under these programs at september 30, 2004, and through the date of termination. the remaining reduction of $117 million related to certain of the company's international businesses selling fewer accounts receivable as a short-term financing mechanism. the aggregate amount outstanding under the company's remaining international accounts receivable programs was $75 million and $80 million at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005, respectively. guarantees certain of the company's business segments have guaranteed the performance of third-parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. the terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from 2007 through the completion of such transactions. the guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental 65 contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. the company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. however, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. see item i. business environmental matters for a discussion of these liabilities. the company had an off-balance sheet leasing arrangement for five cable laying sea vessels. upon expiration of this lease in october 2006, a subsidiary of the company has the option to buy these vessels for approximately $280 million, or return the vessels to the lessor and, under a residual guarantee, pay any shortfall in sales proceeds to the lessor from a third party in an amount not to exceed $235 million. as of september 29, 2006, the company expected this obligation to be $54 million, which is recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, based on an estimate of the fair value of the vessels performed by management with the assistance of a third-party valuation. in october 2006, the company exercised its option to buy these vessels for $280 million. see note 28 to the consolidated financial statements. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company records estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty, see notes 1 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements. in 2001, engineered products and services initiated a voluntary replacement program ("vrp") associated with the acquisition of central sprinkler. the vrp relates to the replacement of certain model gb fire sprinkler heads which were originally manufactured by central sprinkler prior to tyco's acquisition. under this program, the sprinkler heads are being replaced over a 5-7 year period free of charge to property owners. in the third quarter of 2006, the company completed a comprehensive review of reported claims, recent claim rates and cost trends and further assessed the future of the program. the company determined that an additional liability was necessary in order to satisfy the company's obligation under the vrp. as a result, the company recorded a $100 million charge which was reflected in cost of sales. settlements during 2006 include cash expenditures of $37 million related to the vrp. 66 accounting pronouncements recently adopted accounting pronouncements effective october 1, 2005, tyco adopted statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," which requires compensation costs related to share-based transactions, including employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on fair value. sfas no. 123r revises sfas no. 123, as amended, " accounting for stock-based compensation ," and supersedes accounting principles board ("apb") opinion no. 25, " accounting for stock issued to employees ." tyco adopted sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective application transition method. under this method, compensation cost is recognized for the unvested portion of share-based payments granted prior to october 1, 2005 and all share-based payments granted subsequent to september 30, 2005 over the related vesting period. prior to october 1, 2005, the company applied the intrinsic value based method prescribed in apb opinion no. 25 in accounting for employee stock-based compensation. prior period results have not been restated. due to the adoption of sfas no. 123r, the company's results from continuing operations for 2006 include incremental share-based compensation expense totaling $161 million. as such, basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were impacted by $0.06 and $0.05, respectively, in 2006. on november 10, 2005, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb") issued fasb staff position no. fas 123r-3, " transition election related to accounting for tax effects of share-based payment awards ." the company elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in the fasb staff position for calculating the tax effects of stock-based compensation pursuant to sfas no. 123r in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. the alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool ("apic pool") related to the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the apic pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation awards that are fully vested and outstanding upon adoption of sfas no. 123r. the adoption did not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the company adopted fasb interpretation ("fin") no. 47, "accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143," during the fourth quarter of 2006. this interpretation clarifies the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with an asset retirement when the timing and (or) method of settling the obligation are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. fin no. 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. the interpretation requires that conditional asset retirement obligations, along with the associated capitalized asset retirement costs, be reported at their fair values. upon adoption, the company recognized a liability of $32 million for asset retirement obligations and an increase of $10 million in the carrying amount of the related assets. the initial recognition resulted in a cumulative effect of accounting change of $22 million, pre-tax, reflecting the accumulated depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized in prior periods had the provisions of fin no. 47 been in effect at the time. certain obligations relating to the handling and disposal of asbestos have not been recorded due to the fact that fair value cannot be reasonably estimated because the company does not have sufficient information about the range of time over which the obligation may be settled. the undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset retirement obligations that have not been recognized in the financial statements are approximately $8 million. the company will continue to monitor such legal asset retirement obligations and recognize a liability in the period sufficient information becomes available to reasonably estimate the fair value. in june 2005, the fasb issued staff position ("fsp") no. 143-1, "accounting for electronic equipment waste obligations," which provides guidance on accounting for historical waste obligations associated with the european union waste, electrical and electronic equipment directive ("weee directive"). under the directive, the waste management obligation for historical equipment (products 67 put on the market on or prior to august 13, 2005) remains with the commercial user until the equipment is replaced, at which time the waste management obligation may be transferred to the producer of the replacement equipment. fsp no. 143-1 is effective for the first reporting period ending after june 8, 2005 or the date of the adoption of the weee directive into law by the applicable european union member country. the financial statement impact depends heavily on the respective laws and regulations adopted by the eu member countries, their implementation guidance and the type of recycling programs and systems that are established. the company evaluated the effects of fsp no. 143-1 and determined that it did not have a material impact on the company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows. recently issued accounting pronouncements in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, "employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106 and 132(r)." sfas no. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. under sfas no. 158, companies are required to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of their fiscal year end. the company presently uses a measurement date of august 31st. sfas no. 158 also requires additional disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. the recognition provisions of sfas no. 158 are effective for fiscal 2007, while the measurement date provisions become effective in fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact of sfas no. 158 on its consolidated financial statements. based on the funded status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans as of september 29, 2006, the company estimates that it would recognize a net $356 million liability through a reduction in shareholders' equity. the ultimate amounts recorded are highly dependent on various estimates and assumptions including, among other things, the discount rate selected, future compensation levels and performance of plan assets. changes in these assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated impact of implementing sfas no. 158. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, "fair value measurements," which enhances existing guidance for measuring assets and liabilities at fair value. sfas no. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 is effective for tyco beginning september 29, 2008. the company is currently assessing the impact, if any, that sfas no. 157 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. in september 2006, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin ("sab") no. 108, " considering the effects of prior year misstatements when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statement. " sab no. 108 requires that companies utilize a "dual-approach" to assessing the quantitative effects of financial statement misstatements. the dual approach includes both an income statement focused and balance sheet focused assessment. sab no. 108 is applicable for tyco's fiscal year ending september 28, 2007. the company is currently assessing the impact of the adoption of sab no. 108, but does not expect that it will have a significant impact on its financial position or results of operations. in june 2006, the fasb issued fin no. 48, "accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109." this interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. fin no. 48 is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. the company is currently assessing the impact that fin no. 48 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. 68 forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the sec, or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, web casts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, product expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures, the proposed separation or other matters, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions; the demand for tyco's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which tyco competes; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigation and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management; effect of income tax audit settlements; the ratings on our debt and our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including foreign currency rate fluctuations; availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials, including steel; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and six sigma initiatives; potential further impairment of our goodwill and/or our long-lived assets; the impact of fluctuations in the price of tyco common shares; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. government regulations in general, and in particular changes in rules and regulations regarding the safety, efficacy, sales, promotions, insurance reimbursement and pricing of tyco's disposable medical products and other specialty products, as well as 69 changes in rules and regulations regarding the retirement and disposal of certain electrical products; the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the u.s. that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco's incorporation in bermuda or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its incorporation in bermuda; and the potential distraction costs associated with negative publicity relating to actions of our former senior corporate management. additionally, there are several factors and assumptions that could affect the company's plan to separate into three independent entities, our future results and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward looking statements: increased demands on the company's management team as a result of the proposed separation; changes in business, political and economic conditions in the u.s. and in other countries in which the company currently does business; changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies; changes in operating performance; required changes to existing financings, and changes in credit ratings, including those that may result from the proposed separation; the company's ability to obtain the financing necessary to consummate the proposed separation; and the company's ability to satisfy certain conditions precedent, including final approval by the tyco board of directors, receipt of certain tax rulings, necessary opinions of counsel and the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the sec. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in order to manage the volatility relating to our more significant market risks, we enter into forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency swaps, foreign currency options, and interest rate swaps. we do not anticipate any material changes in our primary market risk exposures in 2007. in assessing the current and future risk related to movements in interest rates, we terminated the interest rate and cross currency swaps in several tranches. the aggregate notional value of the interest rate and cross currency swaps terminated during the fourth quarter of 2006 was $2.5 billion. in october 2006, we terminated the remaining contracts with a total notional amount of $0.6 billion. the settlement of these swaps resulted in a net cash inflow of $55 million. since the interest rate swaps were designated as hedging instruments of outstanding debt, the related $32 million loss adjustment to the carrying value of the related debt will be amortized over the remaining life of the related debt instruments. in december 2006, due to required changes to the legal entity structure to facilitate the proposed separation, the company determined that it will no longer consider certain intercompany foreign currency transactions to be long-term investments. as a result, the related foreign currency transaction gains and losses on such investments will be recorded in the income statement rather than to the currency translation component of shareholders' equity. forward contracts that were previously designated as hedges of these net investments will continue to be used to manage this exposure but will no longer be designated as net investment hedges. 70 we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross-border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows, are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. interest rate sensitivity the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including debt obligations and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of principal repayment and weighted-average interest rates. for interest rate and cross-currency swaps, the table presents notional amounts at the current market price rate and weighted average interest rates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. the amounts included in the table below are in u.s. dollars ($ in millions): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value total debt: fixed rate (us$) 3 110 1,591 5 1,002 3,911 6,622 7,231 average interest rate 1.3 % 6.9 % 6.2 % 14.8 % 6.8 % 5.7 % fixed rate (euro) 771 3 872 2 2 6 1,656 1,676 average interest rate 6.1 % 6.3 % 5.5 % 8.2 % 7.4 % 7.2 % fixed rate (yen) 3 1 1 51 56 56 average interest rate 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 5.0 % fixed rate (british pound) 1 1 924 926 1,009 average interest rate 7.3 % 6.9 % 6.5 % fixed rate (other) 2 2 2 2 1 4 13 13 average interest rate 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.6 % 6.5 % 6.5 % 6.9 % variable rate (us$) 9 711 94 10 1 2 827 827 average interest rate (1) 13.3 % 5.9 % 7.8 % 13.0 % 8.4 % 9.1 % variable rate (euro) 13 14 13 1 1 1 43 43 average interest rate (1) 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.7 % variable rate (other) 6 5 4 3 2 10 30 30 average interest rate (1) 7.0 % 7.7 % 8.2 % 8.7 % 10.0 % 10.3 % cross currency swap: british pound to us$ 216 216 52 average pay rate (1) 6.6 % average receive rate 6.5 % interest rate swaps: fixed to variable (us$) 375 375 (6 ) average pay rate (1) 7.0 % average receive rate 6.4 % fixed to variable (british pound) 216 216 average pay rate (1) 6.6 % average receive rate 6.5 % (1) weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates at september 29, 2006 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial instruments. 71 exchange rate sensitivity the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. these instruments include debt obligations and forward foreign currency exchange contracts. for debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of principal repayment and weighted-average interest rates. for forward foreign currency exchange contracts, the table presents notional amounts and weighted-average contractual exchange rates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. the amounts included in the table below are in u.s. dollars ($ in millions): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed rate (euro) 771 3 847 2 2 6 1,631 1,676 average interest rate 6.1 % 6.3 % 5.5 % 8.2 % 7.4 % 13.1 % fixed rate (yen) 3 1 1 51 56 56 average interest rate 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % fixed rate (british pound) 1 1 917 919 1,009 average interest rate 6.8 % 6.9 % 6.5 % fixed rate (other) 2 2 2 2 1 4 13 13 average interest rate 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.6 % 6.5 % 6.5 % 6.9 % variable rate (euro) 13 14 13 1 1 1 43 43 average interest rate (1) 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.7 % variable rate (other) 6 5 4 3 3 9 30 30 average interest rate (1) 7.0 % 7.7 % 8.2 % 8.7 % 10.0 % 10.3 % forward contracts (economic hedges): pay us$/receive euro 2,939 2,939 12 average contractual exchange rate 1.27 pay us$/receive british pound 837 837 13 average contractual exchange rate 1.86 pay us$/receive yen 680 680 (16 ) average contractual exchange rate 114.37 pay us$/receive canada dollars 395 395 11 average contractual exchange rate 1.14 pay us$/receive singapore dollar 255 255 (2 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.57 pay us$/receive australian dollar 228 228 (3 ) average contractual exchange rate 0.76 pay us$/receive hong kong dollar 159 159 average contractual exchange rate 7.76 pay euro/receive british pounds 138 138 1 average contractual exchange rate 0.68 pay us$/receive swiss francs 124 124 average contractual exchange rate 1.24 pay us$/receive mexican peso 103 103 2 average contractual exchange rate 11.26 pay yen/receive euro 86 86 3 average contractual exchange rate 143.60 pay us$/receive south korean won 81 81 1 average contractual exchange rate 948.86 pay us$/receive new zealand dollars 78 78 2 average contractual exchange rate 0.64 pay euro/receive canada dollars 63 63 1 average contractual exchange rate 1.43 pay us$/receive swedish krona 52 52 (1 ) 72 average contractual exchange rate 7.15 pay us$/receive hungary forint 42 42 1 average contractual exchange rate 219.16 pay us$/receive czech koruna 34 34 (1 ) average contractual exchange rate 21.76 pay taiwan dollar/receive us$ 25 25 1 average contractual exchange rate 31.56 pay us$/receive polish zloty 25 25 average contractual exchange rate 3.12 pay thai baht/receive us$ 23 23 average contractual exchange rate 37.98 pay australian dollar/receive euro 19 19 average contractual exchange rate 1.70 pay malaysian ringgit /receive us$ 19 19 average contractual exchange rate 3.63 pay us$/receive denmark kroner 12 12 average contractual exchange rate 5.77 pay polish zloty/receive euro 12 12 average contractual exchange rate 4.01 pay south african rand/receive euro 10 10 1 average contractual exchange rate 9.05 pay us$/receive norwegian krone 10 10 (1 ) average contractual exchange rate 6.19 pay new turkish lira/receive euro 8 8 average contractual exchange rate 2.09 pay swedish krona/receive euro 7 7 average contractual exchange rate 9.29 pay new turkish lira/receive us$ 7 7 average contractual exchange rate 1.54 pay us$/receive chinese yuan 6 6 average contractual exchange rate 7.74 pay us$/receive indonesian rupiah 5 5 average contractual exchange rate 9,138 forward contracts (net investment hedges): pay euro/receive us$ 1,772 1,772 19 average contractual exchange rate 1.29 pay british pound /receive us$ 1,465 1,465 2 average contractual exchange rate 1.89 pay australian dollar /receive us$ 645 645 12 average contractual exchange rate 0.76 pay canada dollars /receive us$ 441 441 (5 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.12 pay yen /receive us$ 231 231 3 average contractual exchange rate 115.10 pay new zealand dollars /receive us$ 126 126 (4 ) average contractual exchange rate 0.63 pay south african rand /receive us$ 91 91 7 average contractual exchange rate 7.10 pay hungary forint /receive us$ 42 42 average contractual exchange rate 215.93 pay czech koruna /receive us$ 27 27 1 average contractual exchange rate 21.81 pay singapore dollar /receive us$ 21 21 average contractual exchange rate 1.57 73 pay polish zloty /receive us$ 17 17 average contractual exchange rate 3.03 pay hong kong dollar /receive us$ 11 11 average contractual exchange rate 7.76 pay swedish krona /receive us$ 11 11 average contractual exchange rate 7.15 pay denmark kroner /receive us$ 5 5 average contractual exchange rate 5.80 (1) weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates at september 29, 2006 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial instruments. in addition to the forward foreign currency exchange contracts presented in the table above, the company held forward contracts in 15 different currency pairs, with individual notional amounts that are not material.risk factors and revising item 9a. controls and procedures. additionally, this amendment on form 10-k/a reflects aguas industriales de jose, c.a. ("aij"), a majority owned engineered products and services segment joint venture in venezuela, as a discontinued operation as it met the held for sale criteria and was sold in our first fiscal quarter of 2007. this amendment reflects the changes discussed above. all other information is unchanged and reflects the disclosures made at the time of the original filing on december 11, 2006. the items amended are as follows: part i, item 1a. risk factors part i, risk factors 1 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. risks relating to the proposed separation the cost to complete the transaction could be significant. management estimates that the income statement charges to complete the proposed separation will be $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion, after-tax. however, actual costs could exceed that estimate and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to complete the transaction. there is no guarantee that the proposed separation will be finalized. completion of the proposed separation is subject to a number of factors and conditions, including: changes in business, political and economic conditions in the u.s. and in other countries in which the company currently operates; changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies; changes in operating performance of the company; required changes to existing financings, and changes in credit ratings, including those that may result from the proposed separation; the company's ability to obtain the financing necessary to consummate the proposed separation; and the company's ability to satisfy certain conditions precedent, including final approval by the tyco board of directors, receipt of certain tax rulings, necessary opinions of counsel and the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the sec. increased demands on our management team as a result of the proposed separation could distract management's attention from operating the business. management expects to file registration statements in connection with the proposed separation during the second quarter of 2007. the complexity of the transaction will require a substantial amount of management and operational resources, as well as the use of several cross-functional project teams. our business or results of operations may be adversely affected during the transition period. each of the independent companies resulting from the completion of the proposed separation may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect will be achieved from the separation transactions. each of the independent companies may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect will result from the separation of two of tyco's segments into independent companies or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. for example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will regard the corporate structures of each of the independent companies as more clear and simple than the current tyco corporate structure or place a greater value on the sum of each of the independent companies as compared to tyco. 1 if certain internal restructuring transactions and the distribution relating to the proposed separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we anticipate that certain internal restructuring transactions will be undertaken in preparation for the proposed separation. these transactions are complex and could cause us to incur significant tax liabilities. we have an initial private letter ruling regarding these transactions and the distribution from the irs noting that they qualify for favorable tax treatment. we have also requested or may request supplemental rulings regarding these transactions and, in addition, we expect to obtain an opinion of tax counsel confirming the favorable tax treatment of these transactions. the ruling and the opinion rely or will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings, from us regarding the past and future conduct of our businesses and other matters. if any of these are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, then we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal restructuring transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or if the distributions should become taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership after the distribution. risks relating to actions of tyco's former senior corporate management pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco, some members of our former senior corporate management, current and former members of our board of directors and our current chief executive officer, former chief financial officer and current general counsel are named defendants in a number of purported class actions alleging violations of certain disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. tyco, certain of our current and former employees, some members of our former senior corporate management and some former members of the board of directors of tyco international (us), inc. also are named as defendants in several erisa class actions. we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. continued scrutiny resulting from ongoing governmental investigations may have an adverse effect on our business. we and others have received subpoenas and requests from the sec, the united states department of labor, the general service administration and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. certain current and former employees in fire and security received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices regarding the adt dealer connect fees. as previously reported in our periodic filings, these practices have been discontinued. the united states department of labor is investigating tyco and the administrators of certain of our benefit plans. at this time, we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government instrumentalities (which in turn could negatively impact our business 2 with non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot provide assurance that the effects and results of these or other investigations will not be material and adverse to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the irs, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the united states irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. the irs continues to audit the 1997 through 2000 years. in 2004 the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns, resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. also during 2006, the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that acceptance of these adjustments is probable and, accordingly, has recorded them in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the company has yet to complete proposed amendments to its u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which will primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. when the company's tax return positions are updated, additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the consolidated financial statements. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash and our cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. in making this estimate, we have not assumed the need to make any material payments in connection with our pending litigation or investigations. any material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital 3 expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. additional negative publicity may adversely affect our business. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco was the subject of continuing negative publicity focusing on these actions. this negative publicity contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities in 2002 and brought increased regulatory scrutiny upon us. additional negative publicity related to former senior corporate management's actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows and the market price of our publicly traded securities. our senior corporate management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from actions of prior management. we replaced our senior corporate executives with a new team during 2002 through 2004, and all of the former members of our board of directors determined not to stand for reelection in march 2003. a new board of directors was elected at our annual general meeting of shareholders in march 2003. we cannot provide assurance that this major restructuring of our board of directors and senior management team, and the accompanying distractions related to matters arising from the actions of prior management will not adversely affect our results of operations. risks relating to our businesses cyclical industry and economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our operating results in some of our segments are affected adversely by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which they operate. for example, demand for the products and services of fire and security and engineered products and services is significantly affected by levels of commercial construction and consumer and business discretionary spending. also, the electronic components business within electronics is heavily dependent on the end markets it serves and therefore can be affected by the demand patterns of these markets, which could impact the margins in this business. this cyclical impact can be amplified because some of our businesses purchase products from other of our businesses. for example, fire and security purchases certain products sold by engineered products and services. therefore, a drop in demand for our fire prevention products due to lower new residential or office construction or other factors can cause a drop in demand for certain of our products sold by engineered products and services. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and 4 the health and safety of our employees. there can be no assurances that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and /or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: radioactive materials decontamination and decommissioning; solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs (including asset retirement obligations of $111 million) of approximately $295 million, of which $34 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $261 million is included in other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures, the proposed separation plan and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. future impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. in addition, such charges would reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareholders' equity, increasing our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio. such reduction in consolidated net worth and increase in debt as a percentage of total capitalization could result in a default under our credit facilities. 5 foreign currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see part ii item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2006 was 51.2% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of steel in the united states. we are also a large buyer of other commodities, including resin, copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are named as a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. in addition, our healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the united states food and drug administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead, and have led, to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. 6 our adt business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our worldwide electronic security services business were 13.8%, 14.8% and 15.1% on a trailing 12-month basis as of september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. although the attrition rate has been declining, if attrition rates were to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial account pools are similarly amortized. if the attrition rates were to rise tyco may be required to accelerate the amortization of the costs which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. tyco and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, asia, india, latin america and europe. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits or other monies, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. from time to time tyco obtains or receives information alleging improper conduct of tyco employees, agents, and/or distributors, including conduct involving potentially improper payments to foreign government officials. tyco's policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, taking remedial control measures and reporting its findings to relevant law enforcement authorities. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of liens. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". 7 downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. certain downgrades by moody's and s&amp;p may increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. we have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis. in connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes as of september 29, 2006. for a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see "management's report on internal control over financial reporting" (as revised) under item 9a, "controls and procedures." a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. while we have taken measures to strengthen our internal controls in response to the identified material weakness related to certain aspects of accounting for income taxes, additional work remains to be done to address the identified material weakness. if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec and the new york stock exchange, including a delisting from the new york stock exchange, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. in addition, the u.s. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. we are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the financial impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. tax legislation the united states congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. in october 2004, the united states congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. legislation passed by the u.s. senate on 8 november 18, 2005 would modify parts of the american jobs creation act of 2004, but would not retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we expect various u.s. treasury department studies to be released and tax proposals to be introduced in the united states congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have adverse effects on tyco if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2006 was 51.2% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the euro, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of steel in the united states. we are also a large buyer of other commodities, including resin, copper, brass, gold, paper, pulp and cotton. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we are named as a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior and product liability litigation. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. in addition, our healthcare business is subject to regulation and potential litigation. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our healthcare business is subject to extensive regulation by the government and failure to comply with those regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the united states food and drug administration regulates the approval, manufacturing and sale and marketing of many of our healthcare products. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines could lead, and have led, to temporary manufacturing shutdowns, product recalls, product shortages or delays in product manufacturing. efficacy or safety concerns, an increase in trends of adverse events in the marketplace, and/or manufacturing quality issues with respect to our products could lead to product recalls, withdrawals or declining sales. 6 our adt business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and has caused us to change the useful life of accounts, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our worldwide electronic security services business were 13.8%, 14.8% and 15.1% on a trailing 12-month basis as of september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. although the attrition rate has been declining, if attrition rates were to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial account pools are similarly amortized. if the attrition rates were to rise tyco may be required to accelerate the amortization of the costs which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees or agents or those of our subsidiaries. tyco and its subsidiaries operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, including, but not limited to, asia, india, latin america and europe. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act, as amended, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits or other monies, against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. from time to time tyco obtains or receives information alleging improper conduct of tyco employees, agents, and/or distributors, including conduct involving potentially improper payments to foreign government officials. tyco's policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, taking remedial control measures and reporting its findings to relevant law enforcement authorities. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, minimum levels of net worth, and limits on incurrence of liens. our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". 7 downgrades of our debt ratings would adversely affect us. certain downgrades by moody's and s&amp;p may increase our cost of capital and make it more difficult for us to obtain new financing. we have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis. in connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes as of september 29, 2006. for a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see "management's report on internal control over financial reporting" (as revised) under item 9a, "controls and procedures." a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. while we have taken measures to strengthen our internal controls in response to the identified material weakness related to certain aspects of accounting for income taxes, additional work remains to be done to address the identified material weakness. if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec and the new york stock exchange, including a delisting from the new york stock exchange, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and affect our operating results. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. in addition, the u.s. federal government and various other states and municipalities have proposed or may propose legislation that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. we are unable to predict with any level of certainty the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the financial impact such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. tax legislation the united states congress has in the past considered legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. in october 2004, the united states congress enacted such legislation, which did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. legislation passed by the u.s. senate on 8 november 18, 2005 would modify parts of the american jobs creation act of 2004, but would not retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we expect various u.s. treasury department studies to be released and tax proposals to be introduced in the united states congress in the future and cannot provide assurance that these proposals would not have adverse effects on tyco if enacted. such adverse effects could include substantially reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise adversely affecting our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or government agencies decline to do business with us as a result of the negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. thus, holders of tyco securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. item 1b. unresolved staff comments in connection with the proposed separation, we filed initial registration statements with the securities and exchange commission ("sec") on january 18, 2007 to register the equity of covidien ltd. and tyco electronics as well as a registration statement for tyco international. we received comments on those documents as well as tyco's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended september 29, 2006 and tyco's quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarterly period ended december 29, 2006 from the sec. responses will be filed concurrent with the amended registration statements. 9 item 6. selected financial data the following tables sets forth selected consolidated financial data of tyco. this data is derived from tyco's consolidated financial statements for the five years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. the selected financial information for each of the periods presented below has been restated to reflect the revisions discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. this selected financial data should be read in conjunction with tyco's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of this annual report titled item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 2006 (1) (2) (restated) 2005 (1) (3)(4) (restated) 2004 (1) (3)(5) (restated) 2003 (1)(3) (6)(7) (restated) 2002 (1)(3) (8) (restated) (in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of income data: net revenue $ 40,938 $ 39,283 $ 37,939 $ 33,839 $ 32,674 income (loss) from continuing operations 3,948 3,110 2,865 880 (3,021 ) net income (loss) 3,590 3,094 2,822 966 (9,225 ) basic earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations 1.96 1.55 1.43 0.44 (1.52 ) net income (loss) 1.78 1.54 1.41 0.48 (4.64 ) diluted earnings (loss) per share: income (loss) from continuing operations 1.91 1.47 1.34 0.44 (1.52 ) net income (loss) 1.74 1.46 1.32 0.48 (4.64 ) cash dividends per share (8) 0.40 0.31 0.05 0.05 0.05 consolidated balance sheets data (end of period): total assets $ 63,012 $ 62,465 $ 63,718 $ 63,174 $ 65,556 long-term debt 9,340 10,569 14,518 18,059 16,506 shareholders' equity 35,387 32,619 30,399 26,451 24,093 (1) the consolidated income statement data for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 have been restated to reflect additional income tax expense (benefit) of $123 million, $(75) million, $(2) million, $(45) million and $(8) million, respectively. (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). (2) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 29, 2006 includes a charge of $100 million related to the voluntary replacement program, which is included in cost of sales. also included are $169 million of separation costs, a net gain on divestitures of $44 million, net restructuring charges of $26 million, of which $6 million are included in cost of sales, long-lived asset impairment charges of $7 million, the write-off of purchased in-process research and development of $63 million, $161 million of incremental stock option charges required under statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," $72 million of income related to a settlement with a former executive and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. net income includes a $344 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $14 million loss, net of income taxes, related to the cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the adoption of financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143 " (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). (3) the consolidated income statement data for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 have been restated to reflect additional compensation expense of $24 million ($13 million after-tax), $85 million ($59 million after-tax), $84 million ($59 million after-tax) and $75 million ($53 million after-tax), respectively, in both income from continuing operations as well as net income. this restatement is related to the review of prior period stock option grant practices and equity plan compliance (see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). (4) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2005 includes a net gain on divestitures of $271 million, of which a charge of $3 million is included in cost of sales, net restructuring charges of $6 million, of which $1 million is included in cost of sales, long-lived asset impairment charges of $6 million, a $277 million charge related to a patent dispute in the healthcare segment, a $70 million charge related to certain former executives' employment, a $50 million charge related to an sec enforcement action, a loss of $1,013 million related to the retirement of debt, a $109 million of income related to a court-ordered restitution award as well as $4 million charge related to the write-down of 10 an investment. net income also includes a $37 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $21 million gain, net of income taxes, related to a cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the change in measurement date for pension and post retirement benefit plans (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). (5) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2004 includes a charge of $116 million related to divestitures, net restructuring charges of $210 million, of which $6 million is included in cost of sales, charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $52 million, and a loss of $284 million related to the retirement of debt. net income also includes a $43 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (6) in 2003, tyco consolidated variable interest entities in accordance with the transition provisions of financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 46, " consolidation of variable interest entities ." as a result, tyco recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $75 million, net of income taxes. (7) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2003 includes net restructuring credits of $68 million, charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $825 million, charges for the impairment of goodwill of $245 million, additional changes in estimates $361 which arose from the company's intensified internal audits and detailed controls and operating reviews, a charge of $91 million for a retroactive incremental premium on prior period directors and officers insurance, a loss related to the retirement of debt of $128 million and a charge of $87 million related to the write-down of certain investments. net income also includes $161 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (8) loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2002 includes net restructuring and other charges of $1,791 million, of which $732 million is included in cost of sales, charges of $3,307 million for the impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill impairment charges of $1,344 million, and a charge for the write-off of purchased research and development of $18 million. in addition, loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2002 includes a loss on investments of $271 million, a net gain on divestiture of $24 million and $30 million of income relating to the retirement of debt. net loss also includes a $6,204 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (9) on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.0125 to $0.10 per share. as a result, in 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common share in the first quarter of 2005 and $0.10 per common share thereafter. prior to 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0125 per common share for all periods presented. the following table reflects our pro forma disclosures made in accordance with sfas no. 123, " accounting for stock-based compensation ," for the years ended september 30, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 restated to reflect the revisions discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 2005 (restated) 2004 (restated) 2003 (restated) 2002 (restated) (in millions, except per share data) net income, as reported $ 3,094 $ 2,822 $ 966 $ (9,225 ) add: employee compensation expense for share options included in reported net income, net of income taxes 23 66 67 53 less: total employee compensation expense for share options determined under fair value method, net of income taxes (169 ) (264 ) (367 ) (454 ) net income, pro forma $ 2,948 $ 2,624 $ 666 $ (9,626 ) earnings per share: basic as reported (1) $ 1.54 $ 1.41 $ 0.48 $ (4.64 ) basic pro forma 1.47 1.31 0.33 (4.84 ) diluted as reported (2) 1.46 1.32 0.48 (4.64 ) diluted pro forma 1.40 1.24 0.34 (4.84 ) (1) prior to the stock option and equity plan and income tax restatements, basic eps was reported as $1.51, $1.44, $0.49 and $(4.62) in 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (2) prior to the stock option and equity plan and income tax restatements, diluted eps was reported as $1.43, $1.35, $0.49 and $(4.62) in 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations, including the effects of the restatement described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, should be 11 read together with the selected financial data and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. this discussion and analysis contains forward- looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements due to many factors, including but not limited to those under the headings "risk factors" and "forward-looking information." introduction the consolidated financial statements include the consolidated accounts of tyco international ltd., a company organized under the laws of bermuda, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as "we," the "company" or "tyco") and have been prepared in united states dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). the company operates in the following business segments: electronics designs, manufactures and distributes electrical and electronic components and related solutions; fire and security designs, manufactures, installs, monitors and services electronic security and fire protection systems; healthcare designs, manufactures and distributes medical devices and supplies, imaging agents, pharmaceuticals and adult incontinence and infant care products; and engineered products and services designs, manufactures, distributes and services engineered products, including industrial valves and controls, as well as steel tubular goods, and provides consulting, engineering and construction management and operating services. the operating results of the tyco global network ("tgn") business are presented within corporate through the date of its disposal in the third quarter of 2005. restatements restatement accounting for income taxes during the second quarter of 2007, the company identified certain errors in its income tax accounting primarily related to maintaining and tax effecting jurisdictional data and the classification of tax amounts in the consolidated balance sheets. in addition, certain errors had been recorded and disclosed in the period in which they were identified rather than in the period in which they occurred since they were immaterial. while these errors are immaterial both individually and in the aggregate to tyco's consolidated financial statements, the company has determined that these errors will become material to tyco's income from continuing operations upon completion of the proposed separation. in anticipation of the proposed separation, the company has restated its consolidated financial statements. effect of restatement these errors result in an aggregate understatement of income tax expense for all years of $14 million. the company has restated its reported results to reflect the impact on income taxes. the impact by year and in total is as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 and prior total income tax expense (benefit) $ 123 $ (75 ) $ (2 ) $ (45 ) $ (8 ) $ 21 $ 14 12 restatement reviews of prior period stock option grant practices and equity plan compliance review of prior period stock option grant practices as previously reported in our form 10-k for 2006 filed on december 11, 2006, following publicity in 2006 regarding the granting of stock options at a number of companies, the company initiated an internal review of its historical stock option grant practices to determine whether the company's stock option award actions were appropriately governed and were accurately reflected in the company's financial statements. the company's internal audit staff, which reports directly to the audit committee of the board of directors, began a review of the company's equity incentive plan practices and associated approvals over the period october 1999 through june 2006. in addition to its review of plan administration, the internal audit staff performed detailed audit procedures on more than 95% of share options granted through the regular and off-cycle grants during this period. the audit procedures covered 100% of named executive officers and section 16 officers and directors. the company's review included an evaluation of grant authorizations, an assessment of the appropriate measurement dates under accounting principles board ("apb") opinion no. 25, " accounting for stock issued to employees ," and the application of appropriate equity pricing methodology. the company has determined that between october 1999 and 2002, there were several grants for which complete documentation was not available. as such, validation of the appropriate measurement date under apb opinion no. 25 was difficult to determine with precision. for such grants, the company determined an appropriate measurement date in reliance upon all available evidence and consideration of alternatives, including the communication date to grantees for all grants, to establish a reasonable date upon which equity recipients and share awards were known, fixed and ready to be communicated to employees. to the extent the company was able to conclude that grant date lists were fixed and ready to be communicated to employees, the measurement date was considered to be the grant date. however, in many instances, the measurement date the company used was the date that the equity award was communicated to the recipient. the company has concluded that errors relating to the company's stock option accounting primarily resulted from: (a) incomplete documentation to enable application of accounting principles under apb opinion no. 25; (b) the unintentional misapplication of generally accepted accounting principles; and (c) the absence of adequate control procedures in 1999 through early 2002 designed to ensure equity recipients and share awards were fixed and certain prior to the legal grant date. the amount of aggregate compensation expense related to this item, which the company should have recorded in prior periods, is $252 million pre-tax and $173 million after-tax, relating to grants awarded prior to the end of 2002. none of this amount relates to 2006, $17 million pre-tax ($8 million after-tax) relates to 2005 and $66 million pre-tax ($46 million after-tax) relates to 2004, as awards vested over the relevant vesting periods. had the company used the communication date as the measurement date in all instances, the difference in the amount recorded would not have been material to any period or in the aggregate. review of equity plan compliance separately, the company identified an error related to the recognition of compensation expense under the company's employee stock purchase program in the united kingdom. the aggregate compensation expense related to this item which the company should have recorded in 2002-2005 is $29 million pre-tax and $20 million after-tax. none of this amount relates to 2006, $7 million pre-tax ($5 million after-tax) relates to 2005 and $19 million pre-tax ($13 million after-tax) relates to 2004. effect of restatement taken together, the stock option and equity plan prior period errors result in an aggregate understatement of compensation expense of $281 million pre-tax and $193 million after-tax. based on the findings of the items discussed above, the company has restated its reported results for prior 13 periods to reflect the impact of additional stock-based compensation expense in corporate. the impact by year and in total is as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 and prior total pre-tax impact $ 24 $ 85 $ 84 $ 75 $ 13 $ 281 after-tax impact $ 13 $ 59 $ 59 $ 53 $ 9 $ 193 restatements reconciliations the impact on operating income for the years ended september 30, 2005 and 2004 as a result of the stock option and equity plan restatement and the impact on net income and accumulated earnings for the years ended september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 and 2004 as a result of the stock option and equity plan and income tax restatements are summarized in the tables below. the amounts previously reported are derived from the form 10-k for the year ended september 29, 2006 filed on december 11, 2006 and have been reclassified for the effects of discontinued operations. years ended 2006 2005 2004 ($ in millions) operating income, as previously reported $ 5,474 $ 5,792 $ 5,231 adjustments: prior period stock option grant practices (17 ) (66 ) equity plan compliance (7 ) (19 ) decrease (24 ) (85 ) operating income, as originally restated 5,474 5,768 5,146 reclass to discontinued operations (1) (11 ) (13 ) (12 ) operating income, as restated $ 5,463 $ 5,755 $ 5,134 operating margins: as previously reported 13.4 % 14.7 % 13.8 % as originally restated 13.4 % 14.7 % 13.6 % as restated 13.3 % 14.7 % 13.5 % net income accumulated earnings years ended at october 1, 2006 2005 2004 2003 ($ in millions) as previously reported $ 3,713 $ 3,032 $ 2,879 $ 2,961 adjustments: prior period stock option grant practices (8 ) (46 ) (119 ) equity plan compliance (5 ) (13 ) (2 ) decrease (2) (13 ) (59 ) (121 ) as originally restated 3,713 3,019 2,820 2,840 adjustment: income taxes (123 ) 75 2 32 as restated $ 3,590 $ 3,094 $ 2,822 $ 2,872 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. (2) the annual impact of the stock option and equity plan restatement on accumulated earnings was $59 million, $53 million, and $9 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001 and prior, respectively. 14 the following tables reflect the impact of the income tax and stock option and equity plan restatements on the company's consolidated statements of income. the amounts previously reported are derived from the form 10-k for the year ended september 29, 2006 filed on december 11, 2006 and have been reclassified for the effects of discontinued operations. year ended september 29, 2006 amounts previously reported reclass to discontinued operations (1) adjustments to income taxes as restated ($ in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of income data: service revenue $ 7,814 $ (22 ) $ $ 7,792 net revenue 40,960 (22 ) 40,938 cost of service 4,780 (7 ) 4,773 selling, general and administrative expenses 7,988 (4 ) 7,984 operating income 5,474 (11 ) 5,463 interest income 134 (1 ) 133 interest expense (713 ) 4 (709 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 4,884 (8 ) 4,876 income taxes (799 ) 2 (123 ) (920 ) minority interest (10 ) 2 (8 ) income from continuing operations 4,075 (4 ) (123 ) 3,948 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (348 ) 4 (344 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 3,727 (123 ) 3,604 net income 3,713 (123 ) 3,590 basic earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 2.03 $ 1.96 loss from discontinued operations (0.17 ) (0.17 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1.86 1.79 cumulative effect of accounting change (0.01 ) (0.01 ) net income $ 1.85 $ 1.78 diluted earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.97 $ 1.91 loss from discontinued operations (0.17 ) (0.17 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1.80 1.74 cumulative effect of accounting change net income $ 1.80 $ 1.74 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. 15 year ended september 30, 2005 amounts previously reported as originally restated reclass to discontinued operations (1) adjustments to income taxes as restated ($ in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of income data: service revenue $ 7,772 $ 7,772 $ (22 ) $ $ 7,750 net revenue 39,305 39,305 (22 ) 39,283 cost of service 4,767 4,767 (6 ) 4,761 selling, general and administrative expenses 8,205 8,229 (3 ) 8,226 operating income 5,792 5,768 (13 ) 5,755 interest expense (815 ) (815 ) 1 (814 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 4,189 4,165 (12 ) 4,153 income taxes (1,123 ) (1,112 ) 2 75 (1,035 ) minority interest (9 ) (9 ) 1 (8 ) income from continuing operations 3,057 3,044 (9 ) 75 3,110 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (46 ) (46 ) 9 (37 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 3,011 2,998 75 3,073 net income 3,032 3,019 75 3,094 basic earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.52 $ 1.51 $ 1.55 loss from discontinued operations (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1.50 1.49 1.53 cumulative effect of accounting change 0.01 0.01 0.01 net income $ 1.51 $ 1.50 $ 1.54 diluted earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.45 $ 1.44 $ 1.47 loss from discontinued operations (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1.42 1.42 1.45 cumulative effect of accounting change 0.01 0.01 0.01 net income $ 1.43 $ 1.43 $ 1.46 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. 16 year ended september 30, 2004 amounts previously reported as originally restated reclass to discontinued operations (1) adjustments to income taxes as restated ($ in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of income data: service revenue $ 8,074 $ 8,074 $ (21 ) $ $ 8,053 net revenue 37,960 37,960 (21 ) 37,939 cost of service 5,145 5,145 (3 ) 5,142 selling, general and administrative expenses 8,097 8,182 (6 ) 8,176 operating income 5,231 5,146 (12 ) 5,134 income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 4,080 3,995 (12 ) 3,983 income taxes (1,138 ) (1,112 ) 3 2 (1,107 ) minority interest (14 ) (14 ) 3 (11 ) income from continuing operations 2,928 2,869 (6 ) 2 2,865 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (49 ) (49 ) 6 (43 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 2,879 2,820 2 2,822 net income 2,879 2,820 2 2,822 basic earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.46 $ 1.43 $ 1.43 loss from discontinued operations (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1.44 1.41 1.41 cumulative effect of accounting change net income $ 1.44 $ 1.41 $ 1.41 diluted earnings per share: income from continuing operations $ 1.37 $ 1.34 $ 1.34 loss from discontinued operations (0.02 ) (0.02 ) (0.02 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1.35 1.32 1.32 cumulative effect of accounting change net income $ 1.35 $ 1.32 $ 1.32 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. 17 the following tables reflect the impact of the income tax and stock option and equity plan restatements on the company's consolidated balance sheets. the amounts previously reported are derived from the form 10-k for the year ended september 29, 2006 filed on december 11, 2006 and have been reclassified for the effects of discontinued operations. september 29, 2006 amounts previously reported reclass to discontinued operations (1) adjustments to income taxes as restated ($ in millions) consolidated balance sheet data: cash and cash equivalents $ 2,926 $ (16 ) $ $ 2,910 accounts receivable, net 7,064 (4 ) 7,060 inventories 4,794 (1 ) 4,793 prepaid expenses and other current assets 2,585 (1 ) (266 ) 2,318 deferred income taxes 1,171 (1 ) 80 1,250 assets held for sale 245 96 341 total current assets 18,785 73 (186 ) 18,672 property, plant &amp; equipment, net 9,309 (69 ) 9,240 goodwill 24,858 14 24,872 other assets 5,642 (4 ) (538 ) 5,100 total assets 63,722 (710 ) 63,012 current maturities of long-term debt 808 (8 ) 800 accounts payable 3,527 (1 ) 3,526 accrued and other current liabilities 5,834 (4 ) (508 ) 5,322 liabilities held for sale 56 39 95 total current liabilities 11,066 26 (508 ) 10,584 long-term debt 9,365 (25 ) 9,340 other liabilities 7,818 (1 ) (170 ) 7,647 total liabilities 28,249 (678 ) 27,571 accumulated earnings 10,706 (14 ) 10,692 accumulated other comprehensive income 1,035 (18 ) 1,017 total shareholders' equity 35,419 (32 ) 35,387 total liabilities and shareholders' equity 63,722 (710 ) 63,012 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. 18 september 30, 2005 amounts previously reported as originally restated reclass to discontinued operations (1) adjustments to income taxes as restated ($ in millions) consolidated balance sheet data: cash and cash equivalents $ 3,212 $ 3,212 $ (8 ) $ $ 3,204 accounts receivable, net 6,657 6,657 (3 ) 6,654 inventories 4,144 4,144 (1 ) 4,143 prepaid expenses and other current assets 1,861 1,861 (1 ) 2 1,862 deferred income taxes 1,220 1,220 (1 ) 97 1,316 assets held for sale 1,568 1,568 90 1,658 total current assets 18,662 18,662 76 99 18,837 property, plant &amp; equipment, net 9,092 9,092 (71 ) 9,021 goodwill 24,557 24,557 12 24,569 other assets 5,225 5,290 (5 ) (332 ) 4,953 total assets 62,621 62,686 (221 ) 62,465 accounts payable 3,019 3,019 (1 ) 3,018 accrued and other current liabilities 5,769 5,769 (6 ) (246 ) 5,517 liabilities held for sale 320 320 38 358 total current liabilities 11,809 11,809 31 (246 ) 11,594 long-term debt 10,599 10,599 (30 ) 10,569 other liabilities 7,702 7,702 (1 ) (79 ) 7,622 total liabilities 30,110 30,110 (325 ) 29,785 contributed surplus, net 15,249 15,507 15,507 accumulated earnings (2) 7,993 7,800 109 7,909 accumulated other comprehensive income 265 265 (5 ) 260 total shareholders' equity 32,450 32,515 104 32,619 total liabilities and shareholders' equity 62,621 62,686 (221 ) 62,465 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. (2) the impact of the stock option and equity plan restatement described above on accumulated earnings as of september 30, 2004 and october 1, 2003 was a decrease of $180 million and $121 million, respectively. 19 the following tables reflect the impact of the income tax and stock option and equity plan restatements on the company's consolidated statements of cash flows. the amounts previously reported are derived from the form 10-k for the year ended september 29, 2006 filed on december 11, 2006 and have been reclassified for the effects of discontinued operations. year ended september 29, 2006 amounts previously reported reclass to discontinued operations (1) adjustments to income taxes as restated ($ in millions) consolidated cash flow data: net income $ 3,713 $ $ (123 ) $ 3,590 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 348 (4 ) 344 income from continuing operations 4,075 (4 ) (123 ) 3,948 depreciation and amortization 2,065 (3 ) 2,062 deferred income taxes 72 (1 ) (18 ) 53 other non-cash items (14 ) (1 ) (15 ) accounts receivable, net (206 ) 1 (205 ) accounts payable 435 (1 ) 434 income taxes (140 ) 2 141 3 net cash provided by operating activities 5,594 (7 ) 5,587 net cash (used in) provided by discontinued operating activities (28 ) 7 (21 ) capital expenditures (1,569 ) 1 (1,568 ) net cash used in investing activities (1,326 ) 1 (1,325 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (100 ) (1 ) (101 ) net repayment of short-term debt (1,901 ) (7 ) (1,908 ) repayment of long-term debt (32 ) 5 (27 ) transfer (to) from discontinued operations (241 ) (1 ) (242 ) net cash used in financing activities (4,596 ) (3 ) (4,599 ) net cash provided by (used in) discontinued financing activities 137 3 140 effect of currency translation on cash 42 1 43 net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (277 ) 1 (276 ) less: net (increase) decrease in cash related to discontinued operations (9 ) (9 ) (18 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 3,212 (8 ) 3,204 cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,926 (16 ) 2,910 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. 20 year ended september 30, 2005 amounts previously reported reclass to discontinued operations (1) adjustments to income taxes as restated ($ in millions) consolidated cash flow data: net income $ 3,019 $ $ 75 $ 3,094 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 46 (9 ) 37 income from continuing operations 3,044 (9 ) 75 3,110 depreciation and amortization 2,084 (3 ) 2,081 deferred income taxes (28 ) 1 64 37 other non-cash items 49 (1 ) 48 accounts receivable, net (701 ) (5 ) (706 ) income taxes 328 (1 ) (139 ) 188 other (147 ) (2 ) (149 ) net cash provided by operating activities 6,154 (21 ) 6,133 net cash (used in) provided by discontinued operating activities 64 21 85 capital expenditures (1,354 ) 15 (1,339 ) other (16 ) 3 (13 ) net cash used in investing activities (1,715 ) 18 (1,697 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (39 ) (18 ) (57 ) repayment of long-term debt (2,956 ) (30 ) (2,986 ) transfer (to) from discontinued operations (78 ) 29 (49 ) net cash used in financing activities (5,782 ) (1 ) (5,783 ) net cash provided by (used in) discontinued financing activities (16 ) 1 (15 ) less: net (increase) decrease in cash related to discontinued operations (9 ) (4 ) (13 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4,490 (4 ) 4,486 cash and cash equivalents at end of year 3,212 (8 ) 3,204 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. 21 year ended september 30, 2004 amounts previously reported reclass to discontinued operations (1) adjustments to income taxes as restated ($ in millions) consolidated cash flow data: net income $ 2,820 $ $ 2 $ 2,822 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 49 (6 ) 43 income from continuing operations 2,869 (6 ) 2 2,865 depreciation and amortization 2,098 (3 ) 2,095 deferred income taxes 167 1 103 271 other non-cash items 39 (3 ) 36 accounts receivable, net (149 ) 2 (147 ) accounts payable 84 1 85 income taxes 404 (5 ) (105 ) 294 net cash provided by operating activities 5,205 (13 ) 5,192 net cash (used in) provided by discontinued operating activities 206 13 219 capital expenditures (1,127 ) 1 (1,126 ) net cash used in investing activities (384 ) 1 (383 ) net cash used in discontinued investing activities (48 ) (1 ) (49 ) transfer (to) from discontinued operations 169 11 180 other (24 ) 1 (23 ) net cash used in financing activities (4,559 ) 12 (4,547 ) net cash provided by (used in) discontinued financing activities (186 ) (12 ) (198 ) cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4,183 (5 ) 4,178 cash and cash equivalents at end of year 4,490 (5 ) 4,485 (1) amounts have been reclassified to reflect aij as a discontinued operation. 22 overview as previously reported in our periodic filings, on january 13, 2006, the company announced that its board of directors approved a plan to separate the company into three separate, publicly traded companies tyco healthcare, one of the world's leading diversified healthcare companies; tyco electronics, the world's largest passive electronic components manufacturer; and a combination of tyco fire and security and engineered products and services, a global business with leading positions in residential and commercial security, fire protection, and industrial products and services (the "proposed separation"). after thorough reviews of strategic options with our board of directors, we believe that this strategy is the best way to position our market-leading companies for sustained growth and value creation. following the proposed separation, tyco's shareholders will own 100% of the equity in all three companies through tax-free stock dividends. each company will have its own independent board of directors and strong corporate governance standards. we expect to file registration statements in connection with the proposed separation during the second quarter of 2007. we expect to incur separation costs related to debt refinancing, tax restructuring, professional services and employee-related costs. we currently estimate that the income statement charges will be at the high end of the range of $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion, after-tax. the total charges to complete the proposed separation will be influenced by the manner in which and the conditions under which we execute the tax restructuring and debt refinancing transactions. during 2006, the company incurred $169 million of costs related to the proposed separation primarily related to legal, accounting and consulting work associated with executing the transaction. consummation of the proposed separation is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by the tyco board of directors, receipt of certain tax rulings, necessary opinions of counsel, the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the securities and exchange commission ("sec") and the completion of any necessary debt refinancings. approval by the company's shareholders is not required as a condition to the consummation of the proposed separation. tyco has received an initial private letter ruling from the internal revenue service ("irs") regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the proposed separation noting it will qualify for favorable tax treatment. we are focused on growing profitability within each of these companies before and after the proposed separation, so that each may be well positioned for long-term growth as independent entities. following the proposed separation, we expect that all three companies will be dividend-paying companies. as we prepare for the proposed separation, we remain committed to returning excess cash to shareholders. during 2006, we repurchased 95 million of our common shares for $2.5 billion under our share repurchase programs. we completed the $1.5 billion share repurchase program previously approved by the board of directors with the repurchase of 45 million of our common shares for $1.2 billion and we repurchased an additional 50 million of our common shares for $1.3 billion under the new $2.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in may 2006. we have $659 million remaining on the $2.0 billion share repurchase program which we expect to complete prior to the proposed separation. during 2006, holders of tyco international group s.a., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company organized under the laws of luxembourg ("tigsa") series a 2.75% convertible senior debentures due 2018 with a 2008 put option converted $1.2 billion of these debentures into 54 million tyco common shares and redeemed the remaining $1 million principal amount outstanding with cash. additionally, we utilized $1.0 billion in cash for a scheduled repayment of public notes and terminated one of our synthetic lease facilities for a total cash payment of $203 million, reducing principal debt and minority interest by $191 million and $10 million, respectively. in october 2006, we exercised our right to buy five cable laying sea vessels that were previously included under an off-balance sheet leasing arrangement for $280 million. 23 during the first quarter of 2007, the operations of aguas industriales de jose, c.a. ("aij"), a majority owned engineered products and services segment joint venture in venezuela met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was sold. as such, it has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. during 2006, we completed the sale of our plastics and adhesives segment. our plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses were sold for net proceeds of $882 million and the a&amp;e products group was sold for net proceeds of $2 million. during 2006, the company also recorded a $30 million receivable due from the purchaser of the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses based on the decline of average resin prices during fiscal year 2006, as contemplated in the definitive sale agreement. this amount is payable to tyco no later than january 2007. additionally, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell printed circuit group ("pcg"), a tyco electronics business and leading manufacturer of high-technology printed circuit boards for the military, aerospace and commercial markets, for $226 million. this transaction was completed on october 27, 2006 and a gain on sale of approximately $45 million is expected. as such, the operations of our plastics and adhesives segment, pcg business and aij business are reflected as discontinued operations in all periods presented. details related to the company's divestiture program and the related discontinued operations are discussed in "discontinued operations and divestitures." we are continuing to assess the strategic fit of our various businesses and are considering additional divestitures where businesses do not align with our long term vision. to further improve operating efficiency, during the first quarter of 2007, we have launched a restructuring program across all segments including the corporate organization which will streamline some of the businesses and reduce our operational footprint. we expect to incur charges of approximately $600 million over the next two years, of which $500 million is expected to be incurred in 2007. we expect that the total cash expenditures for this program will be approximately $450 million, of which $250 million is expected in 2007. we believe this restructuring program will strengthen our competitive position over the long term. 24 operating results net revenue and net income for the years ended september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 and 2004, as restated, was as follows ($ in millions): 2006 (restated) 2005 (restated) 2004 (restated) revenue from product sales $ 33,146 $ 31,533 $ 29,886 service revenue 7,792 7,750 8,053 net revenue $ 40,938 $ 39,283 $ 37,939 operating income $ 5,463 $ 5,755 $ 5,134 interest income 133 123 91 interest expense (709 ) (814 ) (956 ) other expense, net (11 ) (911 ) (286 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 4,876 4,153 3,983 income taxes (920 ) (1,035 ) (1,107 ) minority interest (8 ) (8 ) (11 ) income from continuing operations 3,948 3,110 2,865 loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (344 ) (37 ) (43 ) income before cumulative effect of accounting change 3,604 3,073 2,822 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (14 ) 21 net income $ 3,590 $ 3,094 $ 2,822 net revenue increased $1.7 billion, or 4.2%, for 2006 as compared to 2005, as a result of growth in all segments, led by electronics and engineered products and services. foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of acquisitions and divestitures negatively impacted 2006 revenue growth by $326 million and $125 million, respectively. operating income decreased $292 million, or 5.1%, for 2006 while operating margin decreased 1.4 percentage points to 13.3%. operating income for 2006 was unfavorably impacted by charges of $426 million, consisting of separation costs of $169 million; incremental stock option charges of $161 million as required under statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," charges of $63 million related to purchased in-process research and development and net restructuring and impairment charges of $33 million, of which $6 million is included in cost of sales. operating income for 2006 also included net gains and impairments on divestitures of $44 million, $72 million of income related to a settlement with a former executive and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. in addition, foreign currency exchange rates negatively affected operating income by $52 million. net revenue increased $1.3 billion, or 3.5%, for 2005 as compared to 2004, which resulted from growth in all segments. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected 2005 by $873 million while the impact of divestitures and acquisitions negatively impacted the period by $689 million. operating income increased $621 million, or 12.1%, for 2005 while operating margin increased 1.2 percentage points to 14.7%. operating income for 2005 was favorably impacted by the gain on the sale of the tgn business of $301 million. in addition, the year was unfavorably impacted by charges related to an adverse decision by the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit on a patent dispute in the healthcare segment of $277 million, a charge related to an sec enforcement 25 action of $50 million and a charge relating to former executives' employment of $70 million. foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected operating income by $142 million. results by geographic area net revenue by geographic area for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 was as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 net revenue: united states $ 19,985 $ 19,298 $ 19,254 other americas 2,472 2,180 2,082 europe 11,498 11,407 10,830 asia-pacific 6,983 6,398 5,773 net revenue (1) $ 40,938 $ 39,283 $ 37,939 (1) revenue from external customers is attributed to individual countries based on the reporting entity that records the transaction. segment results the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in continuing operations. electronics net revenue, operating income and operating margin for electronics for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 revenue from product sales $ 12,515 $ 11,620 $ 10,921 service revenue 209 154 450 net revenue $ 12,724 $ 11,774 $ 11,371 operating income $ 1,808 $ 1,849 $ 1,744 operating margin 14.2 % 15.7 % 15.3 % net revenue for electronics increased $950 million or 8.1% in 2006 as compared to 2005, including a 7.7% increase in product revenue. the increase in net revenue reflects broad-based volume growth across most customer end markets, especially premise wiring, industrial machinery and equipment, consumer electronics, communications equipment manufacturing and communication service provider markets. these increases were partially offset by the impact of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $148 million. 26 operating income and operating margin for 2006 decreased as compared to 2005 due primarily to increased material costs of $306 million, incremental stock option charges of $40 million required under sfas no. 123r and negative changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $23 million. additionally, operating income for 2006 included net restructuring, divestiture and impairment charges of $16 million, of which $6 million is reflected in cost of sales, as compared to net restructuring and other credits of $10 million in 2005, discussed below. operating income for 2006 also includes $3 million related to the proposed separation. net revenue for electronics increased $403 million or 3.5% in 2005 as compared to 2004, including a 6.4% increase in product revenue. the increase in net revenue was driven primarily by sales to the automotive, aerospace and defense, consumer electronics, power utilities, communications equipment manufacturing and communication service provider markets. in addition, revenue increased substantially due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $291 million. these increases were partially offset by the impact of the divestiture of the electrical contracting services business of $353 million. operating income and operating margin for 2005 increased as compared to 2004 due primarily to increased sales volume, cost savings initiatives and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $57 million. these increases were partially offset by an 80 basis point impact of increased commodity costs. additionally, operating income for 2005 included net restructuring and other credits of $10 million, as compared to net restructuring, divestiture and impairment charges of $20 million in 2004. fire and security net revenue, operating income and operating margin for fire and security for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 revenue from product sales $ 5,426 $ 5,299 $ 5,343 service revenue 6,227 6,204 6,104 net revenue $ 11,653 $ 11,503 $ 11,447 operating income $ 1,190 $ 1,216 $ 899 operating margin 10.2 % 10.6 % 7.9 % net revenue for fire and security increased $150 million or 1.3% in 2006 as compared to 2005, including a 2.4% increase in product revenue. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of security, fire protection and other systems. net revenue increased due to growth in worldwide fire protection contracting and services primarily related to electrical and mechanical contracting as well as growth in the north american and international markets in our worldwide electronic security services. these increases were offset by the impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $117 million, unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $60 million, and a decrease in sales of breathing and fire detection products within safety products. operating income decreased $26 million in 2006 over the prior year primarily as a result of lower margins, increased investments in selling and marketing and a decline in european recurring monitoring revenues within worldwide electronic security services. results for the current period included net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $11 million as compared to net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $28 million in 2005. operating income for 2006 was favorably impacted by cost savings related to operational excellence initiatives and prior year restructuring programs. in addition, 2006 operating income was unfavorably impacted by $2 million 27 related to the proposed separation as well as incremental stock option charges of $35 million required under sfas no. 123r. attrition rates for customers in our worldwide electronic security services business decreased to 13.8% on a trailing twelve-month basis for 2006, as compared to 14.8% for 2005 and 15.1% in 2004. net revenue for fire and security remained relatively level during 2005 as compared to 2004 as the decrease in product revenue was offset by an increase in service revenue. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of security, fire protection and other systems. net revenue increased due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $274 million and, to a lesser extent, increased sales volume of breathing and intrusion products at tyco safety products as well as growth in our european fire services business. these increases were offset by the impact of divestitures of $315 million and decreased sales at our security business in europe. operating income increased $317 million in 2005 over the prior year. results for the current period included net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $28 million as compared to net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges of $264 million in 2004. operating income for 2005 was also favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange rates of $26 million as well as cost savings related to operational excellence initiatives and prior year restructuring programs. these cost reductions were partially offset by increased investment in sales and marketing. healthcare net revenue, operating income and operating margin for healthcare for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 revenue from product sales $ 9,579 $ 9,477 $ 9,040 service revenue 62 66 70 net revenue $ 9,641 $ 9,543 $ 9,110 operating income $ 2,200 $ 2,286 $ 2,365 operating margin 22.8 % 24.0 % 26.0 % net revenue for healthcare increased $98 million or 1.0% in 2006 as compared to 2005. this increase was largely driven by the international and surgical divisions within medical devices &amp; supplies as a result of strong growth across the majority of geographic regions in surgical sales including laparoscopy, ablation and vessel sealing, and to a lesser extent, sutures. also contributing to the revenue increase was volume growth in bulk pharmaceuticals (active pharmaceutical ingredients) and retail, with growth primarily driven by new product sales and distribution, growth in latin america, as well as favorable economic trends and strategic promotional efforts in key markets. these increases were partially offset by the adverse impact of voluntary product recalls in imaging and lower volume sales within respiratory, in addition to the negative changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $93 million. operating income and operating margin decreased $86 million and 1.2 percentage points, respectively, as compared to 2005. the increased volume in medical devices &amp; supplies, discussed above, was more than offset by unfavorable manufacturing performance primarily in respiratory and imaging, as a result of lower volumes and higher expenses primarily associated with voluntary product recalls, as well as weakness in retail of $40 million. also contributing to the decrease in operating income, although to a lesser extent, was additional investments in research and development and selling expenses. operating income was adversely impacted by a charge of $63 million related to purchased in-process research and development, incremental stock option charges required under sfas no. 123r of $37 million, $2 million of charges related to the proposed separation and a $31 million negative 28 impact related to foreign currency exchange rates. additionally, operating income for 2006 included a gain on divestiture of $48 million, primarily relating to a sale of a business within medical devices and supplies. net revenue for healthcare increased $433 million or 4.8% in 2005 as compared to 2004. this increase resulted primarily from growth in existing businesses and, to a lesser extent, favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $141 million. growth in healthcare's underlying businesses was principally driven by increased revenue within medical devices &amp; supplies which was largely the result of increased sales volume in the international division, primarily in europe, due to a sales force investment and sales growth in vessel sealing, laparoscopy, and stapling. increased sales at the surgical division within medical devices &amp; supplies also strongly contributed, due to enhanced contracting with group purchasing organizations, increased acceptance of laparoscopic gastric by-pass procedures and increased adoption of ligasure device. pharmaceuticals also contributed to the increase in revenue, although to a lesser extent. these increases were partially offset by decreased sales in retail primarily due to a difficult competitive environment and customer consolidations. the decreases in operating income and operating margin in 2005 as compared to 2004 were due primarily to a $277 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005, associated with the adverse decision by the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit on a previously disclosed legal matter. (refer to note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.) this charge, combined with declines in the retail division as a result of the competitive environment mentioned above as well as increased material and transportation costs, was offset by substantial increases from other divisions, specifically the international and surgical divisions within medical devices &amp; supplies as well as within pharmaceutical. increases in these divisions were due to strong sales growth as mentioned above, combined with a favorable product mix. also positively impacting the segment were reduced administrative expenses at the segment level, as well as favorable foreign exchange rates of $41 million. engineered products and services net revenue, operating income and operating margin for engineered products and services for the years ended september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004 were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 2004 revenue from product sales $ 5,625 $ 5,137 $ 4,582 service revenue 1,295 1,297 1,404 net revenue $ 6,920 $ 6,434 $ 5,986 operating income $ 665 $ 659 $ 608 operating margin 9.6 % 10.2 % 10.2 % net revenue for engineered products and services increased $486 million or 7.6% in 2006 as compared to 2005. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by flow control as a result of strong project volume in the pacific region and favorable market conditions in asia and north america, as well as increased selling prices in electrical &amp; metal products due to higher costs of copper. to a lesser extent, tyco fire &amp; building products experienced growth in the industrial and commercial construction markets and increased price realization. the above increases in revenue were partially offset by a decrease at infrastructure services as a result of a strategic decision to be more selective in bidding for new projects, which has resulted in fewer but more profitable projects, and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $25 million. operating income remained relatively level in 2006 as compared to 2005. both the revenue growth at flow control and fire &amp; building products, as well as favorable copper spreads in electrical &amp; 29 metal products and higher margin projects at infrastructure services contributed positively to operating income in 2006. offsetting this growth was a $100 million charge relating to the voluntary replacement program for certain sprinkler heads (see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements) and incremental stock option charges of $17 million required under sfas no. 123r. net revenue for engineered products and services increased $448 million or 7.5% in 2005 as compared to 2004. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by increased selling prices in electrical &amp; metal products due to higher costs of steel and other raw materials. in addition, flow control and, to a lesser extent, tyco fire &amp; building products experienced growth in the industrial and commercial construction markets. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $167 million also contributed to the increase in revenue. the above increases in revenue were partially offset by a decrease at infrastructure services as a result of a strategic decision to be more selective in bidding for new projects, which has resulted in fewer but more profitable projects. the increases in operating income and operating margin in 2005 as compared to 2004 were due primarily to increased volume and demand within the industrial and commercial markets, along with the impact of operational excellence initiatives, cost reductions from prior period restructuring programs and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $21 million. these increases more than offset the impact of higher raw material costs. additionally, 2005 operating income includes $4 million of net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges as compared to the $62 million of net restructuring, impairment and divestiture charges in 2004. corporate corporate net revenue was $29 million and $25 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively, which related to the tgn business which was sold in the third quarter of 2005. corporate expense was $400 million, $255 million and $482 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. corporate expense for 2006 includes $162 million related to the proposed separation and incremental stock option charges of $32 million required under sfas no. 123r. corporate expense also includes income related to a settlement with a former executive of $72 million as well as $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. operating income for 2005 and 2004 has been restated to reflect additional compensation expense of $24 million and $85 million, respectively, related to the review of prior period stock option grant practices and equity plan compliance. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. corporate expense for 2005 includes a $301 million gain on the sale of the tgn business and tgn operating losses of $54 million. in addition, corporate expenses for 2005 included a $50 million charge representing the fines and penalties that the company paid to resolve the matters raised in the sec investigation that commenced in june 2002, as well as a $70 million charge for estimated legacy contingencies related to former executives' employment. corporate expense for 2004 includes net charges of $14 million, which consists of charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $8 million and net restructuring charges of $6 million primarily attributable to severance related to the relocation of the corporate headquarters. expense also included $73 million of operating losses related to the tgn. interest income and expense interest income was $133 million in 2006, as compared to $123 million and $91 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. interest expense was $709 million in 2006, as compared to $814 million in 2005 and $956 million in 2004. the decrease in interest expense in 2006 is primarily driven by lower debt balances, partially offset by the impact of higher interest rates on our interest rate swap program as compared to 2005. 30 the decrease in interest expense in 2005 over 2004 is primarily the result of lower debt balances, partially offset by the impact of higher interest rates on our interest rate swap program compared to 2004. the weighted-average rates of interest on total debt outstanding during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were 5.9%, 5.6% and 5.2%, respectively. other expense, net during 2006, other expense, net consisted primarily of a loss relating to the write-down of certain investments to their net realizable value. during 2005, other expense, net included a loss on the retirement of debt. the company repurchased $1,241 million principal amount of its outstanding 2.75% convertible senior debentures for $1,823 million and $750 million principal amount of its outstanding 3.125% convertible senior debentures for $1,147 million. these repurchases resulted in a $1,013 million loss on the retirement of debt, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. also during 2005, other expense, net included income of $109 million related to a court-ordered restitution award. on september 12, 2002, indictments were filed in the supreme court of the state of new york against mr. l. dennis kozlowski, our former chairman and chief executive officer, and mr. mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director (together, the "defendants"), alleging enterprise corruption, fraud, conspiracy, grand larceny, falsifying certain business records and other crimes. on june 17, 2005, a jury convicted the defendants on 22 of 23 counts in the indictment. on september 19, 2005, the defendants were sentenced in new york state supreme court to serve eight and one third years to twenty five years in prison and to make joint restitution to the company in the amount of $134 million, resulting from the larceny convictions. the restitution award is comprised of $109 million of previously expensed compensation made to the defendants and reported as other expense, net in prior years and $25 million related to a loan receivable from one of the defendants which had been and remains reflected in the company's consolidated financial statements as a receivable. the defendants have filed a notice of appeal of the convictions. the company considered the collectibility of the restitution award and assessed the likelihood of the defendants' success upon appeal of the larceny convictions, which, if successful, could result in a change to the restitution order, and has concluded that receipt of the restitution award is probable. the court ordered the restitution payment to be made by no later than one year from the date of sentencing. tyco has initiated the process of collecting the restitution payment owed, subject to the pending appeal. during october 2006, the company received payment of $38 million relating to the restitution and expects to receive the remaining amount in the second quarter of 2007. during 2004, other expense, net consisted primarily of a loss on the retirement of debt. the company repurchased $303 million of its 7.2% notes due 2008 for cash of $341 million, which resulted in a $38 million loss, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. additionally, the company repurchased $517 million of its outstanding 2.75% convertible senior debentures with a 2008 put option. the total purchase price paid was $750 million and the repurchase resulted in a $241 million loss on the retirement of debt, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. income taxes our effective income tax rate was 18.9%, 24.9% and 27.8% for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the decrease in the effective tax rate from 2005 to 2006 was primarily the result of additional releases of deferred tax asset valuation allowances, as a result of improved historical and projected profitability in certain jurisdictions. the decrease in the effective tax rate from 2004 to 2005 is primarily the result of the release of valuation allowances, benefits realized related to the tgn divestiture, as well as the court-ordered restitution award related to certain former executives for which there is no tax obligation and, to a lesser extent, increased profitability in operations in jurisdictions with lower tax rates. this 31 decrease is partially offset by an increase in charges for which no tax benefit was available such as the loss on retirement of debt, asset impairments and the estimated settlement of the sec enforcement action. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $1,696 million and $1,832 million at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. we believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets. the valuation allowance was calculated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 109, "accounting for income taxes," which requires a valuation allowance be established or maintained when it is "more likely than not" that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. further, management has reviewed with tax counsel the issues raised by these taxing authorities and the adequacy of these recorded amounts. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the united states internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded. while the timing and ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain, the company anticipates that certain of these matters could be resolved during 2007. the irs continues to audit the 1997 through 2000 years. in 2004, we submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns, resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. also during 2006, we developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, we have determined that acceptance of these adjustments is probable and, accordingly, have recorded them in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have yet to complete proposed amendments to our u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which will primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. when our tax return positions are updated, additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the consolidated financial statements. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, we believe that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. except for earnings that are currently distributed, no additional provision has been made for u.s. or non-u.s. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or for unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested, the investments are essentially permanent in duration, or the company 32 has concluded that no additional tax liability will arise as a result of distribution of such earnings. a liability could arise if amounts are distributed by such subsidiaries or if such subsidiaries are ultimately disposed. it is not practicable to estimate the additional income taxes related to permanently reinvested earnings or the basis differences related to investments in subsidiaries. discontinued operations and divestitures discontinued operations during the first quarter of 2007, the operations of aguas industriales de jose, c.a. ("aij"), a majority owned engineered products and services segment joint venture in venezuela, met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was sold. as such, it has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. during 2006, the company consummated the sale of the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses as well as the a&amp;e product business for $975 million and $6 million in gross cash proceeds, respectively. working capital and other adjustments resulted in net proceeds of $882 million for the sale of the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses. during 2006, the company also recorded a $30 million receivable due from the purchaser of the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses based on the decline of average resin prices during fiscal year 2006, as contemplated in the definitive sale agreement. this amount is payable to tyco no later than january 2007. net cash proceeds received for the sale of the a&amp;e products business was $2 million, which does not include working capital provisions which are expected to be settled prior to the end of calendar year 2006. both businesses met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. during 2006, the company recorded a $261 million and $26 million pre-tax loss on sale from discontinued operations related to the plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses and a&amp;e products business, respectively, which include $275 million and $22 million, respectively, of pre-tax impairment charges to write the businesses down to their fair values less costs to sell. fair values used for the respective impairment assessments were based on existing market conditions and the terms and conditions included or expected to be included in the respective sale agreements. during 2006, the company approved a plan to divest the printed circuit group ("pcg") business, a component of the electronics segment, and also entered into a definitive sale agreement to sell pcg for $226 million in cash. during 2006, the company recorded a $4 million pre-tax loss on sale from discontinued operations for pcg related to the divestiture of the pcg spain business as well as certain other costs to sell. the sale of pcg was completed in october 2006 and the company expects to record a gain on the sale of approximately $45 million. see note 28 to the consolidated financial statements. the pcg business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. in 2005, tyco announced its intent to explore the divesture of its plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses, as well as the a&amp;e products business, a global manufacturer of plastic film, specialty tapes and adhesives, coated products and garment hangers. as a result of consideration for potential sale and deteriorating operating results in the a&amp;e products business, the company performed an interim assessment of the recoverability of both goodwill and long-lived assets and determined that the book value of certain long-lived assets in the a&amp;e products business was greater than their estimated fair value and consequently recorded a long-lived asset impairment of $40 million and goodwill impairment charge of $162 million. fair value used for the impairment assessment was based on probability-weighted expected future cash flow of the assets. during 2005, the company divested 8 businesses which were reported as discontinued operations within fire and security, engineered products and services and the plastics and adhesives business 33 segment. the company reported losses on sale or additional impairments to write the carrying value of such assets down to their estimated fair value less costs to sell of $60 million during 2005. during 2004, the company reported losses on the sale of discontinued operations of $132 million to write the carrying value of such assets down to their fair value less cost to sell. for the additional 8 businesses in 2005 and the divested businesses in 2004, fair value used for the impairment assessment was primarily based on the terms and conditions included or expected to be included in the sales agreements. (gains) losses on divestitures during 2004, the company divested twenty-one and liquidated four non-core businesses across all business segments primarily within fire and security. during 2004, the company recorded net losses and impairments on divestitures of $116 million in continuing operations in connection with the divestiture or write-down to fair value of certain held for sale businesses. during 2005, tyco agreed to sell the tgn, its undersea fiber optic telecommunication network. the sale was consummated on june 30, 2005. as part of the sale transaction, tyco received gross cash proceeds of $130 million, and the purchaser assumed certain liabilities. in connection with this sale, tyco recorded a $301 million gain which is reflected in (gains) losses on divestitures in the consolidated statement of income for 2005. the company has presented the operations of the tgn in continuing operations as the criteria for discontinued operations were not met. during 2005, the company divested 10 businesses that were reported as continuing operations in fire and security, healthcare and engineered products and services. the company recorded net losses and impairments on divestitures of $32 million, including a $3 million charge reflected in cost of sales, in connection with the divestiture and liquidation of these businesses, as well as the write-down to estimated fair value of certain held for sale businesses. during 2006, the company divested 6 businesses that were reported as continuing operations in fire and security and healthcare. the company recorded net gains on divestitures of $46 million in connection with the divestiture of these businesses, less $2 million of divestiture charges related to the write-down to estimated fair value and costs to sell certain other held for sale businesses. for the divested businesses during 2006, 2005 and 2004, fair value used for the impairment assessment was primarily based on the terms and conditions included or expected to be included in the sales agreements. acquisitions during 2006, tyco's healthcare segment acquired over 90% ownership in floreane medical implants, s.a. ("floreane") for approximately $123 million in cash, net of cash acquired of $3 million. floreane is an innovator in the development of surgical support implants for parietal, urological and gynecological surgery. the remaining outstanding shares would be acquired if they become available. the company recorded a $3 million in-process research and development charge in conjunction with the acquisition. during 2006, tyco's healthcare segment also acquired over 50% ownership of airox s.a. ("airox") for approximately $59 million, net of cash acquired of $4 million. airox is a leading european company in the home respiratory ventilation systems business. tyco expects to acquire the remaining airox shares in a mandatory tender offer. the initial share purchase and the subsequent tender offer combined are expected to total approximately $108 million. the company has also recorded an $11 million in-process research and development charge in conjunction with the acquisition. the charge relates to the development of second generation technology which has not yet obtained regulatory 34 approval. as of the acquisition date, the in-process research and development was not considered to be technologically feasible or to have any alternative future use. during 2006, tyco's healthcare segment also acquired confluent surgical, inc. ("confluent"). the total purchase price is expected to be $246 million. as of september 29, 2006, the company has paid approximately $200 million in cash, net of cash acquired of $12 million. the company has also deposited approximately $34 million of the total purchase price into an escrow account related to closing balance sheet adjustments and certain indemnifications to be resolved through fiscal 2008. the company recorded a $49 million in-process research and development charge in conjunction with the acquisition related to technology which confluent is developing for numerous applications across several surgical disciplines which have not yet received regulatory approval. as of the acquisition date, the in-process research and development was not considered to be technologically feasible or to have any alternative future use. cash paid for other acquisitions in 2006 totaled $31 million, net of $8 million cash acquired. in july 2005, tyco's healthcare segment acquired vivant medical inc. ("vivant"), a developer of microwave ablation medical technology. the transaction is valued at approximately $66 million cash, with up to approximately $35 million additional cash to be paid in the future based on achieving certain milestones. cash paid, net of cash acquired, for various other acquisitions totaled $16 million. during 2004, the company completed the acquisition of two businesses within engineered products and services and fire and security for an aggregate cost of $9 million. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash from operations. the results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in tyco's consolidated results from the respective acquisition dates. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. cumulative effect of accounting change during 2006, the company adopted financial accounting standards board interpretation ("fin") no. 47, "accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143." accordingly, the company has recognized asset retirement obligations of $32 million and property, plant and equipment, net of $10 million in its consolidated balance sheet at september 29, 2006. in addition, the company recorded a cumulative effect of accounting change which resulted in a $14 million after-tax loss ($22 million pre-tax). refer to note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on fin no. 47. during 2005, the company changed the measurement date for its pension and postretirement benefit plans, from september 30 th to august 31 st , effective october 1, 2004. the company believes that the one-month change of measurement date is a preferable change as it allows management adequate time to evaluate and report the actuarial information in the company's consolidated financial statements under the accelerated reporting deadlines. as a result of this change, the company recorded a $21 million after-tax gain ($28 million pre-tax) cumulative effect of accounting change. refer to note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on retirement plans. change in fiscal year and reporting calendar alignment effective october 1, 2004, tyco changed its fiscal year end from a calendar fiscal year ending september 30 to a "52-53 week" year ending on the last friday of september, such that each quarterly period will be 13 weeks in length. in addition, certain of the company's subsidiaries had consistently 35 closed their books up to one month prior to the company's fiscal period end. these subsidiaries now report results for the same period as the reported results of the consolidated company. the impact of this change was not material to the consolidated financial statements. net income for the transition period related to this change was $26 million and was reported within shareholders' equity during 2005. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. the following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. depreciation and amortization method for security monitoring systems tyco generally considers its electronic security assets in three asset pools: internally generated residential systems, internally generated commercial systems and customer accounts acquired through the adt dealer program. the determination of the depreciable lives of subscriber systems, as defined below, included in property, plant and equipment, and the amortizable lives of customer contracts and related customer relationships included in intangible assets, are primarily based on historical attrition rates, third-party lifing studies and the useful life of the underlying tangible asset. the realizable value and remaining useful lives of these assets could be impacted by changes in customer attrition rates. if the attrition rates were to rise, tyco may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization. with respect to tyco's depreciation policy for security monitoring systems installed in residential and commercial customer premises, the costs of these systems are combined in separate pools for internally generated residential and internally generated commercial account customers (collectively "subscriber systems"), and generally depreciated over ten to fourteen years. tyco concluded that for residential and commercial account pools the straight-line method of depreciation over a ten to fourteen-year period continues to be appropriate given the observed actual attrition data for these pools. tyco purchases residential security monitoring contracts from an external network of independent dealers who operate under the adt dealer program. the purchase price of these customer contracts is recorded as an intangible asset (i.e., contracts and related customer relationships). intangible assets arising from the adt dealer program are amortized in pools determined by the month of contract acquisition on an accelerated basis over the period and pattern of economic benefit that is expected to be obtained from the customer relationship. tyco believes that the accelerated method that presently best achieves the matching objective described above is the double-declining balance method based on a ten-year life for the first eight years of the estimated life of the customer relationships converting to the straight-line method of amortization for the remaining four years of the estimated relationship period. actual attrition data is regularly reviewed in order to assess the continued applicability of the accelerated method of amortization described above. attrition rates for customers in our worldwide electronic security services business were 13.8%, 14.8% and 15.1% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. revenue recognition contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, large security intruder systems, undersea fiber-optic cable systems and other construction related projects are recorded primarily on the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon contracted revenue and related estimated cost to completion. the risk of this methodology is its dependence upon estimates of costs to completion, which are subject to the 36 uncertainties inherent in long-term contracts. revisions in cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits in the current period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they first become determinable. if estimates are inaccurate, there is risk that our revenue and profits for the period may be overstated or understated. product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other markets participants. rebates are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. loss contingencies accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. the accruals are based on judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarially determined estimates. additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. income taxes in determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. these estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. in estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future state, federal and international pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. we currently have recorded significant valuation allowances that we intend to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. our income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. the realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. if a change in a valuation allowance occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition, such adjustment may impact goodwill rather than the income tax provision. changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. management is not aware of any such changes that would have a material effect on the company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if the tax 37 liabilities relate to tax uncertainties existing at the date of the acquisition of a business, the adjustment of such tax liabilities will result in an adjustment to the goodwill recorded at the date of acquisition. goodwill and intangible assets goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually and more frequently if a triggering event occurs. in performing this assessment, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. since judgment is involved in performing goodwill valuation analyses, there is risk that the carrying value of our goodwill may be overstated or understated. we elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for all reporting units. when testing for goodwill impairment, the company follows the guidance prescribed in sfas no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets." first, the company performs a step i goodwill impairment test to identify a potential impairment. in doing so, the company compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and a step ii goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. in the step ii goodwill impairment test, the company compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. if the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. the company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. disruptions to our business such as end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, the divestiture of a significant component of a reporting unit and market capitalization declines may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment first step valuation analysis for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. there were no goodwill impairments related to continuing operations during 2006, 2005 and 2004. goodwill impairments included in loss from discontinued operations in 2005 totaled $162 million. long-lived assets assets held and used by the company, including property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. for purposes of evaluating the recoverability of long-lived assets to be held and used, a recoverability test is performed based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. impairments to long-lived assets to be disposed of are recorded based upon the fair value of the applicable assets. since judgment is involved in determining the fair value and useful lives of long-lived assets, there is a risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may be overstated or understated. pension and postretirement benefits our pension expense and obligations are developed from actuarial valuations. two critical assumptions in determining pension expense and obligations are the discount rate and expected long-term return on plan assets. we evaluate these assumptions at least annually. other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover and are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. actual results may differ from actuarial assumptions. the discount rate represents the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments and is used to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows for benefit 38 obligations under our pension plans. a decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of pension benefit obligations. a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase our present value of pension obligations by approximately $225 million. we consider the current and expected asset allocations of our pension plans, as well as historical and expected long-term rates of return on those types of plan assets, in determining the expected long-term return on plan assets. a 50 basis point decrease in the expected long-term return on plan assets would increase our pension expense by approximately $20 million. liquidity and capital resources the sources of our cash flow from operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations for the years ended september 29, 2006, and september 30, 2005 and 2004, as restated, were as follows ($ in millions): 2006 (restated) 2005 (restated) 2004 (restated) cash flows from operating activities: operating income $ 5,463 $ 5,755 $ 5,134 non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges (credits), net 9 (13 ) 16 (gains) losses on divestitures (44 ) (271 ) 111 in-process research and development 63 depreciation and amortization (1) 2,062 2,081 2,095 non-cash compensation expense 275 99 121 deferred income taxes 53 37 271 provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 174 232 317 other, net (2) (46 ) 148 79 net increase in working capital (926 ) (209 ) (980 ) interest income 133 123 91 interest expense (709 ) (814 ) (956 ) income tax expense (920 ) (1,035 ) (1,107 ) net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,587 $ 6,133 $ 5,192 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net (3) $ (1,513 ) $ (1,248 ) $ (986 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 9 18 929 acquisition of customer accounts (adt dealer program) (373 ) (328 ) (254 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (19 ) (47 ) (104 ) voluntary pension contributions 2 115 567 (1) includes depreciation expense of $1,412 million, $1,428 million and $1,404 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively and amortization of intangible assets of $650 million, $653 million and $691 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (2) includes the add-back of losses on the retirement of debt of $2 million, $1,013 million and $284 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (3) includes net proceeds of $55 million, $91 million and $140 million received for the sale/disposition of property, plant and equipment in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the net change in total working capital was a cash decrease of $926 million in 2006. the components of this change are set forth in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the change in working capital included an increase of $680 million in inventories and a $332 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities, primarily related to decreased accrued legal and audit fees, partially offset by an increase in annual employee bonus compensation. the provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory decreased from $232 million during the year ended september 30, 2005 to $174 million for the current period. this decrease was driven by 39 improvements across all segments, particularly due to improved accounts receivable aging, an overall improved credit profile of the customer base, and better collections. consequently, our allowance for doubtful accounts decreased from $421 million at september 30, 2005 to $336 million at september 29, 2006. cash flows from operating activities and other cash flow items by segment for the year ended september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): electronics fire and security healthcare engineered products and services corporate and other total (restated) cash flows from operating activities: operating income (loss) $ 1,808 $ 1,190 $ 2,200 $ 665 $ (400 ) $ 5,463 non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges, net 3 1 4 1 9 losses (gains) on divestitures 2 1 (48 ) 1 (44 ) in-process research and development 63 63 depreciation 463 567 270 101 11 1,412 intangible assets amortization 70 514 64 2 650 depreciation and amortization 533 1,081 334 103 11 2,062 non-cash compensation expense 65 56 58 26 70 275 deferred income taxes 53 53 provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 67 31 48 28 174 net (increase) decrease in working capital and other (92 ) (126 ) (605 ) 33 (182 ) (972 ) interest income 133 133 interest expense (709 ) (709 ) income tax expense (920 ) (920 ) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 2,386 $ 2,234 $ 2,054 $ 856 $ (1,943 ) $ 5,587 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net $ (549 ) $ (433 ) $ (429 ) $ (97 ) $ (5 ) $ (1,513 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 9 9 acquisition of customer accounts (adt dealer program) (373 ) (373 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (4 ) (6 ) (8 ) (1 ) (19 ) voluntary pension contributions 2 2 during 2006, the company completed the sale of our plastics and adhesives segment, previously announced in 2005. our plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products businesses were sold for net proceeds of $882 million and the a&amp;e products group was sold for $2 million in net cash proceeds. during 2006, we made additional cash outflows of approximately $450 million for the resolution of certain previously accrued legal matters, including a patent dispute in the healthcare segment, and a cash payment of $50 million to settle the previously disclosed sec enforcement action. we will continue to use excess cash to repurchase shares. during 2006, we repaid and terminated one of our synthetic lease facilities for a total cash payment of $203 million, reducing principal debt and minority interest by $191 million and $10 million, respectively. also, we utilized $1.0 billion in cash and $700 million in credit facility borrowings for scheduled repayments of public notes. 40 during 2006, we paid $413 million related to acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, including a net $200 million and a net $123 million related to the previously discussed acquisitions of confluent and floreane, respectively, within tyco's healthcare segment. we continue to fund capital expenditures to improve the cost structure of our businesses, to invest in new processes and technology, and to maintain high quality production standards. capital spending increased to $1.6 billion in 2006 from $1.3 billion in 2005. the level of capital expenditures in 2007 is expected to exceed spending levels in 2006 and is also expected to exceed depreciation. in october 2006, the company exercised its right to buy five cable laying sea vessels that were previously included under an off-balance sheet leasing arrangement for $280 million. this cash paid will be included in capital expenditures for 2007. income taxes paid, net of refunds, during the year was $862 million. during 2006, we repurchased 95 million of our common shares for $2.5 billion, completing the $1.5 billion share repurchase program previously approved by the board of directors in july 2005 and continuing the new $2.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in may 2006. during 2006, 2005 and 2004, tyco paid $373 million, $328 million and $254 million of cash, respectively, to acquire approximately 401,000, 364,000 and 302,000 customer contracts for electronic security services through the adt dealer program. during 2006, 2005 and 2004 we paid out $68 million, $171 million and $266 million, respectively, in cash related to restructuring activities. these amounts include $7 million, $16 million and $43 million, respectively, reported in discontinued operations. see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our restructuring activities. subsequent to year end, we launched a $600 million company-wide restructuring program. we expect to incur approximately $500 million of charges in 2007, and we expect that the total cash expenditures for this program will be approximately $450 million, of which $250 million is expected in 2007. during 2006, 2005 and 2004, we paid $101 million, $48 million and $107 million, respectively, in cash for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities. of the total cash paid, $82 million, $1 million and $3 million, respectively, was reported in discontinued operations. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet and other contingencies. at september 29, 2006 holdback liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets were $112 million, of which $23 million are included in accrued and other current liabilities and $89 million are included in other liabilities. at september 29, 2006, $40 million of acquisition liabilities remained on our consolidated balance sheets, of which $14 million are included in accrued and other current liabilities and $26 million are included in other liabilities. as previously mentioned, in january 2006, the company announced that its board of directors approved a plan to separate the company into three separate, publicly traded companies. in connection with the proposed separation, we paid $96 million in separation costs during 2006. we expect that, during 2007, we will incur the remaining cash outflows related to the proposed separation which will be largely attributable to tax restructuring, debt refinancing, professional services and employee-related costs. in october 2006, the company completed the sale of its pcg business, which was part of the electronics segment, for $226 million and expects to record a gain on the sale of approximately $45 million. 41 capitalization shareholders' equity was $35.4 billion or $17.76 per share, at september 29, 2006, compared to $32.6 billion or $16.19 per share, at september 30, 2005. this increase was due primarily to net income of $3.6 billion, the exchange of convertible debt due 2018 of $1.2 billion, and favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $606 million. these increases were partially offset by the repurchase of common shares by a subsidiary of $2.5 billion as previously mentioned and dividends declared of $807 million. at september 29, 2006, total debt decreased $2.4 billion to $10.1 billion, as compared to $12.5 billion at september 30, 2005. total debt as a percentage of total capitalization (total debt and shareholders' equity) was 22% at september 29, 2006 and 28% at september 30, 2005. our debt levels significantly decreased as compared to september 30, 2005 primarily due to the redemption of $1.2 billion of our series a 2.75% convertible senior debentures due 2018 with a 2008 put option, and the scheduled $1.0 billion repayment of our 6.375% public notes. also, as mentioned, we repaid and terminated one of our synthetic lease facilities reducing our principal debt by $203 million. our cash balance decreased to $2.9 billion at september 29, 2006, as compared to $3.2 billion at september 30, 2005. the decrease in cash was primarily due to the repurchase of shares under the previously-announced programs, and the scheduled debt repayments referred to above, capital expenditures, and to a lesser extent, dividend payments. the majority of these decreases were partially offset by cash flows from operations. tigsa holds a $1.0 billion 5-year revolving credit facility expiring on december 16, 2009. tigsa also holds a $1.5 billion 3-year revolving bank credit facility which was amended during 2006 to extend the maturity date from december 22, 2006 to december 21, 2007. additionally, tigsa holds a $500 million 3-year unsecured letter of credit facility expiring on june 15, 2007. at september 29, 2006, letters of credit of $475 million have been issued under the $500 million facility and $25 million remains available for issuance. also, during 2006, tigsa borrowed $700 million under its $1.5 billion 3-year revolving bank credit facility, with the entire proceeds used to repay its 5.8% public notes due 2006 at their maturity on august 1, 2006. there were no amounts borrowed under the other credit facilities at september 29, 2006. the company's bank credit agreements contain a number of financial covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, and amortization and minimum levels of net worth, and limits on the incurrence of liens. the company's outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. none of these covenants are presently considered restrictive to the company's operations. the company is currently in compliance with all of its debt covenants. as previously discussed, in may 2006, the board of directors approved a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program. pursuant to the new program, we may repurchase tyco shares from time to time in open market purchases at prevailing market prices, in negotiated transactions off the market, or pursuant to an approved 10b5-1 trading plan in accordance with applicable regulations. a rule 10b5-1 trading plan permits the company to repurchase its shares during periods when the company would not normally be active in the trading market due to insider trading laws, provided the plan is adopted when the company is not aware of material non-public information. under a rule 10b5-1 trading plan, we would be unable to repurchase shares above a pre-determined price per share. additionally, the maximum number of shares that we may purchase each day would be governed by rule 10b-18. on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.0125 to $0.10 per share. as a result, dividend payments were $806 million in 2006. following the proposed separation, we expect that all three companies will be dividend-paying companies. 42 also, following the proposed separation, it is anticipated that all three companies will be capitalized to provide financial flexibility to take advantage of future growth opportunities. they are expected to have financial policies, balance sheet and credit metrics that are commensurate with solid investment grade ratings. tyco will continue to follow financial policies that are consistent with its current credit ratings until the planned transactions take place. the company's existing debt is expected to be allocated among the three companies or refinanced. any existing or potential liabilities that cannot be associated with a particular entity will be allocated appropriately to each of the businesses, and a sharing agreement among the three companies will be established. the following table details our debt ratings at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005: short term long term moody's prime-3 baa 3 standard &amp; poor's a2 bbb+ fitch f2 bbb+ the security ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. commitments and contingencies contractual obligations contractual obligations and commitments for debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and other obligations at september 29, 2006 is as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total debt (1) $ 774 $ 811 $ 2,547 $ 6 $ 1,002 $ 4,833 $ 9,973 capital leases 26 27 22 9 7 76 167 operating leases 516 405 301 214 158 499 2,093 purchase obligations (2) 222 24 10 10 7 24 297 total contractual cash obligations (3) $ 1,538 $ 1,267 $ 2,880 $ 239 $ 1,174 $ 5,432 $ 12,530 (1) excludes interest. (2) purchase obligations consist of commitments for purchases of good and services. (3) other long-term liabilities primarily consist of the following: pension and postretirement costs, income taxes, warranty and environmental liabilities and are excluded from this table. we are unable to estimate the timing of payment for these items due to the inherent uncertainties of obligations of this type. the minimum required contributions to our pension plans are expected to be approximately $151 million in 2007 and we expect to pay $26 million in 2007 related to postretirement benefit plans. at september 29, 2006, the company had outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees in the amount of $1.3 billion. at september 29, 2006, tigsa had unsecured credit facilities of $1.5 billion due december 21, 2007, and $1.0 billion due december 16, 2009, of which $1.8 billion was undrawn and available (see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, certain of the company's operating subsidiaries have uncommitted overdraft and similar types of facilities, which total $624 million, of which $606 million was undrawn and available at september 29, 2006. these facilities expire at various 43 dates through the year 2013, most of which are renewable and are established primarily within our international operations. at september 29, 2006, the company had a contingent purchase price liability of $80 million related to the 2001 acquisition of com-net by electronics. this represents the maximum amount payable to the former shareholders of com-net only after the construction and installation of a communications system for the state of florida is finished and the state has approved the system based on the guidelines set forth in the contract. a liability for this contingency has not been recorded in tyco's consolidated financial statements as the outcome of this contingency cannot be reasonably determined. in june 2004, tigsa entered into a $500 million 3-year unsecured letter of credit facility due june 15, 2007. the facility provides for the issuance of letters of credit, supported by a related line of credit facility. tigsa may only borrow under the line of credit agreement to reimburse the bank for obligations with respect to letters of credit issued under this facility. the covenants under this facility are substantially similar to tigsa's bank credit facilities entered into during december 2003 and the indenture related to tigsa's 6% notes due 2013 issued in november 2003. tigsa would pay interest on any outstanding borrowings at a variable interest rate, based on the bank's base rate or the eurodollar rate, as defined. upon the occurrence of certain credit events, the interest rate on the outstanding borrowings becomes fixed. the issuance of letters of credit under this credit facility during 2004 enabled the company to release approximately $480 million of restricted cash and investments. as of september 29, 2006, letters of credit of $475 million have been issued under the $500 million credit facility and $25 million remains available for issuance. there were no amounts borrowed under this credit facility at september 29, 2006. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. legal matters class actions for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's securities class actions, shareholder derivative litigation, erisa litigation and investigation, and litigation against former senior management, see item 3. legal proceedings. we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. while we may from time to time seek to engage plaintiff's counsel in settlement discussions, we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. investigations for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to governmental investigations related to tyco see item 3. legal proceedings subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities. we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government instrumentalities 44 (which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss, or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. on april 17, 2006, the company reached a settlement that closes the sec enforcement division's investigation of the company regarding certain accounting practices and other actions by former tyco officers. on april 25, 2006, the united states district court for the southern district of new york entered a final judgment in which the company was ordered to pay $1 in disgorgement and a fine of $50 million. during the third quarter of 2006, the company satisfied the judgment which was accrued in 2005. intellectual property and antitrust litigation the company is party to a number of patent infringement and antitrust actions that may require the company to pay damage awards. tyco has assessed the status of these matters and has recorded liabilities related to certain of these matters where appropriate. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's intellectual property and antitrust litigation, see item 3. legal proceedings intellectual property and antitrust litigation. environmental matters for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's environmental matters, see item 1. business environmental matters. asbestos matters tyco and some of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. consistent with the national trend of increased asbestos-related litigation, the company has observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits in the past several years. the majority of these cases have been filed against subsidiaries in healthcare and engineered products and services. a limited number of the cases allege premises liability, based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos while on a subsidiary's property. a majority of the cases involve product liability claims, based principally on allegations of past distribution of heat-resistant industrial products incorporating asbestos or the past distribution of industrial valves that incorporated asbestos-containing gaskets or packing. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. tyco's involvement in asbestos cases has been limited because its subsidiaries did not mine or produce asbestos. furthermore, in the company's experience, a large percentage of these claims were never substantiated and have been dismissed by the courts. the company will continue to vigorously defend these lawsuits and the company has not suffered an adverse verdict in a trial court proceeding related to asbestos claims. when appropriate, the company settles claims; however, the total amount paid in any year to settle and defend all asbestos claims has been immaterial. as of september 29, 2006, there were approximately 15,500 asbestos liability cases pending against the company and its subsidiaries. the company estimates its pending asbestos claims that were incurred but not reported, as well as related insurance and indemnification recoveries. the company's estimate of the liability for pending and future claims is based on claim experience over the past five years and covers claims expected to be filed over the next seven years. the company believes that it has adequate amounts recorded related to these matters. while it is not possible at this time to determine with certainty the ultimate outcome of these asbestos-related proceedings, the company believes that the final outcome of all 45 known and anticipated future claims, after taking into account its substantial indemnification rights and insurance coverage, will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. income taxes tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns are periodically examined by various tax authorities. in connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded. while the timing and ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain, the company anticipates that certain of these matters could be resolved during 2007. compliance matters tyco has received and responded to various allegations that certain improper payments were made by tyco subsidiaries in recent years. during 2005, tyco reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it has taken in response to the allegations. tyco also informed the doj and the sec that it has retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), that it would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies, and that it would present its factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. the company has and will continue to have communications with the doj and sec to provide updates on the baseline review being conducted by outside counsel, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper payments identified by the company in the course of its ongoing compliance activities. to date, the baseline review has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements. tyco cannot predict the outcome of other allegations reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of any or all of these matters. accordingly, it is possible that the company may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. other matters the company is a party to a contract dispute arising from earth tech's contract with the city of phoenix, arizona for the expansion of the city's 91 st avenue waste water treatment plant. both earth tech and the city of phoenix have filed lawsuits in the local county superior court alleging the other party has breached the contract. at this time, tyco cannot predict the outcome of this matter and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of this matter. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's other legal matters, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. backlog at september 29, 2006, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $13.7 billion, compared to a backlog of $13.1 billion at september 30, 2005. we expect that approximately 80% of our backlog at 46 september 29, 2006 will be filled during 2007. backlog by reportable industry segment at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 is as follows ($ in millions): 2006 2005 fire and security $ 7,000 $ 6,732 engineered products and services 3,742 3,559 electronics 2,711 2,496 healthcare 280 272 $ 13,733 $ 13,059 within fire and security, backlog increased primarily as a result of strong bookings in north america and europe. backlog for fire and security includes recurring revenue-in-force, which represents twelve months' fees for monitoring and maintenance services under contract in the security business. the amount of recurring revenue-in-force at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 was $3.65 billion and $3.55 billion, respectively. backlog within engineered products and services increased primarily as a result of increased orders at flow control. within electronics, backlog increased as a result of increased bookings in most key end markets. backlog in healthcare represents unfilled orders, which, in the nature of the business, are normally shipped shortly after purchase orders are received. we do not view backlog in healthcare to be a significant indicator of the level of future sales activity. off-balance sheet arrangements sale of accounts receivable tyco utilized several programs under which it sold participating interests in accounts receivable to investors who, in turn, purchased and received ownership and security interests in those receivables. these transactions qualified as true sales. the sale proceeds were less than the face amount of accounts receivable sold, and the discount from the face amount was included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. such discount aggregated $18 million, or 3.1% of the weighted-average balance of the receivables outstanding, during 2004. during 2004, the company reduced outstanding balances under its accounts receivable programs by $929 million, of which $812 million related to its corporate accounts receivable programs which were terminated in 2005. no amounts were utilized under these programs at september 30, 2004, and through the date of termination. the remaining reduction of $117 million related to certain of the company's international businesses selling fewer accounts receivable as a short-term financing mechanism. the aggregate amount outstanding under the company's remaining international accounts receivable programs was $75 million and $80 million at september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005, respectively. guarantees certain of the company's business segments have guaranteed the performance of third-parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. the terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from 2007 through the completion of such transactions. the guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental 47 contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. the company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. however, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. see item i. business environmental matters, on form 10-k filed december 11, 2006, for a discussion of these liabilities. the company had an off-balance sheet leasing arrangement for five cable laying sea vessels. upon expiration of this lease in october 2006, a subsidiary of the company has the option to buy these vessels for approximately $280 million, or return the vessels to the lessor and, under a residual guarantee, pay any shortfall in sales proceeds to the lessor from a third party in an amount not to exceed $235 million. as of september 29, 2006, the company expected this obligation to be $54 million, which is recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, based on an estimate of the fair value of the vessels performed by management with the assistance of a third-party valuation. in october 2006, the company exercised its option to buy these vessels for $280 million. see note 28 to the consolidated financial statements. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company records estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty, see notes 1 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements. in 2001, engineered products and services initiated a voluntary replacement program ("vrp") associated with the acquisition of central sprinkler. the vrp relates to the replacement of certain model gb fire sprinkler heads which were originally manufactured by central sprinkler prior to tyco's acquisition. under this program, the sprinkler heads are being replaced over a 5-7 year period free of charge to property owners. in the third quarter of 2006, the company completed a comprehensive review of reported claims, recent claim rates and cost trends and further assessed the future of the program. the company determined that an additional liability was necessary in order to satisfy the company's obligation under the vrp. as a result, the company recorded a $100 million charge which was reflected in cost of sales. settlements during 2006 include cash expenditures of $37 million related to the vrp. 48 accounting pronouncements recently adopted accounting pronouncements effective october 1, 2005, tyco adopted statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," which requires compensation costs related to share-based transactions, including employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on fair value. sfas no. 123r revises sfas no. 123, as amended, " accounting for stock-based compensation ," and supersedes accounting principles board ("apb") opinion no. 25, " accounting for stock issued to employees ." tyco adopted sfas no. 123r using the modified prospective application transition method. under this method, compensation cost is recognized for the unvested portion of share-based payments granted prior to october 1, 2005 and all share-based payments granted subsequent to september 30, 2005 over the related vesting period. prior to october 1, 2005, the company applied the intrinsic value based method prescribed in apb opinion no. 25 in accounting for employee stock-based compensation. prior period results have not been restated. due to the adoption of sfas no. 123r, the company's results from continuing operations for 2006 include incremental share-based compensation expense totaling $161 million. as such, basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were impacted by $0.06 and $0.05, respectively, in 2006. on november 10, 2005, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb") issued fasb staff position no. fas 123r-3, " transition election related to accounting for tax effects of share-based payment awards ." the company elected to adopt the alternative transition method provided in the fasb staff position for calculating the tax effects of stock-based compensation pursuant to sfas no. 123r in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. the alternative transition method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool ("apic pool") related to the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the apic pool and consolidated statements of cash flows of the tax effects of employee stock-based compensation awards that are fully vested and outstanding upon adoption of sfas no. 123r. the adoption did not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the company adopted fasb interpretation ("fin") no. 47, "accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143," during the fourth quarter of 2006. this interpretation clarifies the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with an asset retirement when the timing and (or) method of settling the obligation are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. fin no. 47 also clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. the interpretation requires that conditional asset retirement obligations, along with the associated capitalized asset retirement costs, be reported at their fair values. upon adoption, the company recognized a liability of $32 million for asset retirement obligations and an increase of $10 million in the carrying amount of the related assets. the initial recognition resulted in a cumulative effect of accounting change of $22 million, pre-tax, reflecting the accumulated depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized in prior periods had the provisions of fin no. 47 been in effect at the time. certain obligations relating to the handling and disposal of asbestos have not been recorded due to the fact that fair value cannot be reasonably estimated because the company does not have sufficient information about the range of time over which the obligation may be settled. the undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset retirement obligations that have not been recognized in the financial statements are approximately $8 million. the company will continue to monitor such legal asset retirement obligations and recognize a liability in the period sufficient information becomes available to reasonably estimate the fair value. in june 2005, the fasb issued staff position ("fsp") no. 143-1, "accounting for electronic equipment waste obligations," which provides guidance on accounting for historical waste obligations associated with the european union waste, electrical and electronic equipment directive ("weee directive"). under the directive, the waste management obligation for historical equipment (products 49 put on the market on or prior to august 13, 2005) remains with the commercial user until the equipment is replaced, at which time the waste management obligation may be transferred to the producer of the replacement equipment. fsp no. 143-1 is effective for the first reporting period ending after june 8, 2005 or the date of the adoption of the weee directive into law by the applicable european union member country. the financial statement impact depends heavily on the respective laws and regulations adopted by the eu member countries, their implementation guidance and the type of recycling programs and systems that are established. the company evaluated the effects of fsp no. 143-1 and determined that it did not have a material impact on the company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows. recently issued accounting pronouncements in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, "employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106 and 132(r)." sfas no. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. under sfas no. 158, companies are required to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of their fiscal year end. the company presently uses a measurement date of august 31st. sfas no. 158 also requires additional disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. the recognition provisions of sfas no. 158 are effective for fiscal 2007, while the measurement date provisions become effective in fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact of sfas no. 158 on its consolidated financial statements. based on the funded status of defined benefit and other postretirement plans as of september 29, 2006, the company estimates that it would recognize a net $356 million liability through a reduction in shareholders' equity. the ultimate amounts recorded are highly dependent on various estimates and assumptions including, among other things, the discount rate selected, future compensation levels and performance of plan assets. changes in these assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated impact of implementing sfas no. 158. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, "fair value measurements," which enhances existing guidance for measuring assets and liabilities at fair value. sfas no. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 is effective for tyco beginning september 29, 2008. the company is currently assessing the impact, if any, that sfas no. 157 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. in september 2006, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin ("sab") no. 108, " considering the effects of prior year misstatements when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statement. " sab no. 108 requires that companies utilize a "dual-approach" to assessing the quantitative effects of financial statement misstatements. the dual approach includes both an income statement focused and balance sheet focused assessment. sab no. 108 is applicable for tyco's fiscal year ending september 28, 2007. the company is currently assessing the impact of the adoption of sab no. 108, but does not expect that it will have a significant impact on its financial position or results of operations. in june 2006, the fasb issued fin no. 48, "accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109." this interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. fin no. 48 is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. the company is currently assessing the impact that fin no. 48 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. 50 forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the sec, or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, web casts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, product expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures, the proposed separation or other matters, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions; the demand for tyco's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which tyco competes; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigation and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management; effect of income tax audit settlements; the ratings on our debt and our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including foreign currency rate fluctuations; availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials, including steel; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and six sigma initiatives; potential further impairment of our goodwill and/or our long-lived assets; the impact of fluctuations in the price of tyco common shares; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. government regulations in general, and in particular changes in rules and regulations regarding the safety, efficacy, sales, promotions, insurance reimbursement and pricing of tyco's disposable medical products and other specialty products, as well as 51 changes in rules and regulations regarding the retirement and disposal of certain electrical products; the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the u.s. that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco's incorporation in bermuda or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its incorporation in bermuda; and the potential distraction costs associated with negative publicity relating to actions of our former senior corporate management. additionally, there are several factors and assumptions that could affect the company's plan to separate into three independent entities, our future results and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward looking statements: increased demands on the company's management team as a result of the proposed separation; changes in business, political and economic conditions in the u.s. and in other countries in which the company currently does business; changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies; changes in operating performance; required changes to existing financings, and changes in credit ratings, including those that may result from the proposed separation; the company's ability to obtain the financing necessary to consummate the proposed separation; and the company's ability to satisfy certain conditions precedent, including final approval by the tyco board of directors, receipt of certain tax rulings, necessary opinions of counsel and the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the sec. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risk associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in order to manage the volatility relating to our more significant market risks, we enter into forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross-currency swaps, foreign currency options, and interest rate swaps. we do not anticipate any material changes in our primary market risk exposures in 2007. in assessing the current and future risk related to movements in interest rates, we terminated the interest rate and cross currency swaps in several tranches. the aggregate notional value of the interest rate and cross currency swaps terminated during the fourth quarter of 2006 was $2.5 billion. in october 2006, we terminated the remaining contracts with a total notional amount of $0.6 billion. the settlement of these swaps resulted in a net cash inflow of $55 million. since the interest rate swaps were designated as hedging instruments of outstanding debt, the related $32 million loss adjustment to the carrying value of the related debt will be amortized over the remaining life of the related debt instruments. in december 2006, due to required changes to the legal entity structure to facilitate the proposed separation, the company determined that it will no longer consider certain intercompany foreign currency transactions to be long-term investments. as a result, the related foreign currency transaction gains and losses on such investments will be recorded in the income statement rather than to the currency translation component of shareholders' equity. forward contracts that were previously designated as hedges of these net investments will continue to be used to manage this exposure but will no longer be designated as net investment hedges. 52 we utilize established risk management policies and procedures in executing derivative financial instrument transactions. we do not execute transactions or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross-border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows, are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. counterparties to derivative financial instruments are limited to financial institutions with at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. interest rate sensitivity the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including debt obligations and interest rate swaps. for debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of principal repayment and weighted-average interest rates. for interest rate and cross-currency swaps, the table presents notional amounts at the current market price rate and weighted average interest rates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. the amounts included in the table below are in u.s. dollars ($ in millions): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value total debt: fixed rate (us$) 3 110 1,591 5 1,002 3,911 6,622 7,231 average interest rate 1.3 % 6.9 % 6.2 % 14.8 % 6.8 % 5.7 % fixed rate (euro) 771 3 872 2 2 6 1,656 1,676 average interest rate 6.1 % 6.3 % 5.5 % 8.2 % 7.4 % 7.2 % fixed rate (yen) 3 1 1 51 56 56 average interest rate 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 5.0 % fixed rate (british pound) 1 1 924 926 1,009 average interest rate 7.3 % 6.9 % 6.5 % fixed rate (other) 2 2 2 2 1 4 13 13 average interest rate 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.6 % 6.5 % 6.5 % 6.9 % variable rate (us$) 1 702 86 2 1 2 794 794 average interest rate (1) 8.5 % 5.8 % 7.2 % 8.4 % 8.4 % 9.1 % variable rate (euro) 13 14 13 1 1 1 43 43 average interest rate (1) 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.7 % variable rate (other) 6 5 4 3 2 10 30 30 average interest rate (1) 7.0 % 7.7 % 8.2 % 8.7 % 10.0 % 10.3 % cross currency swap: british pound to us$ 216 216 52 average pay rate (1) 6.6 % average receive rate 6.5 % interest rate swaps: fixed to variable (us$) 375 375 (6 ) average pay rate (1) 7.0 % average receive rate 6.4 % fixed to variable (british pound) 216 216 average pay rate (1) 6.6 % average receive rate 6.5 % (1) weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates at september 29, 2006 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial instruments. 53 exchange rate sensitivity the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to foreign currency exchange rates. these instruments include debt obligations and forward foreign currency exchange contracts. for debt obligations, the table presents cash flows of principal repayment and weighted-average interest rates. for forward foreign currency exchange contracts, the table presents notional amounts and weighted-average contractual exchange rates. notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. the amounts included in the table below are in u.s. dollars ($ in millions): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value long-term debt: fixed rate (euro) 771 3 847 2 2 6 1,631 1,676 average interest rate 6.1 % 6.3 % 5.5 % 8.2 % 7.4 % 13.1 % fixed rate (yen) 3 1 1 51 56 56 average interest rate 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % 1.9 % fixed rate (british pound) 1 1 917 919 1,009 average interest rate 6.8 % 6.9 % 6.5 % fixed rate (other) 2 2 2 2 1 4 13 13 average interest rate 6.9 % 6.9 % 6.6 % 6.5 % 6.5 % 6.9 % variable rate (euro) 13 14 13 1 1 1 43 43 average interest rate (1) 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.6 % 4.6 % 4.7 % variable rate (other) 6 5 4 3 3 9 30 30 average interest rate (1) 7.0 % 7.7 % 8.2 % 8.7 % 10.0 % 10.3 % forward contracts (economic hedges): pay us$/receive euro 2,939 2,939 12 average contractual exchange rate 1.27 pay us$/receive british pound 837 837 13 average contractual exchange rate 1.86 pay us$/receive yen 680 680 (16 ) average contractual exchange rate 114.37 pay us$/receive canada dollars 395 395 11 average contractual exchange rate 1.14 pay us$/receive singapore dollar 255 255 (2 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.57 pay us$/receive australian dollar 228 228 (3 ) average contractual exchange rate 0.76 pay us$/receive hong kong dollar 159 159 average contractual exchange rate 7.76 pay euro/receive british pounds 138 138 1 average contractual exchange rate 0.68 pay us$/receive swiss francs 124 124 average contractual exchange rate 1.24 pay us$/receive mexican peso 103 103 2 average contractual exchange rate 11.26 pay yen/receive euro 86 86 3 average contractual exchange rate 143.60 pay us$/receive south korean won 81 81 1 average contractual exchange rate 948.86 pay us$/receive new zealand dollars 78 78 2 average contractual exchange rate 0.64 pay euro/receive canada dollars 63 63 1 average contractual exchange rate 1.43 pay us$/receive swedish krona 52 52 (1 ) 54 average contractual exchange rate 7.15 pay us$/receive hungary forint 42 42 1 average contractual exchange rate 219.16 pay us$/receive czech koruna 34 34 (1 ) average contractual exchange rate 21.76 pay taiwan dollar/receive us$ 25 25 1 average contractual exchange rate 31.56 pay us$/receive polish zloty 25 25 average contractual exchange rate 3.12 pay thai baht/receive us$ 23 23 average contractual exchange rate 37.98 pay australian dollar/receive euro 19 19 average contractual exchange rate 1.70 pay malaysian ringgit /receive us$ 19 19 average contractual exchange rate 3.63 pay us$/receive denmark kroner 12 12 average contractual exchange rate 5.77 pay polish zloty/receive euro 12 12 average contractual exchange rate 4.01 pay south african rand/receive euro 10 10 1 average contractual exchange rate 9.05 pay us$/receive norwegian krone 10 10 (1 ) average contractual exchange rate 6.19 pay new turkish lira/receive euro 8 8 average contractual exchange rate 2.09 pay swedish krona/receive euro 7 7 average contractual exchange rate 9.29 pay new turkish lira/receive us$ 7 7 average contractual exchange rate 1.54 pay us$/receive chinese yuan 6 6 average contractual exchange rate 7.74 pay us$/receive indonesian rupiah 5 5 average contractual exchange rate 9,138 forward contracts (net investment hedges): pay euro/receive us$ 1,772 1,772 19 average contractual exchange rate 1.29 pay british pound /receive us$ 1,465 1,465 2 average contractual exchange rate 1.89 pay australian dollar /receive us$ 645 645 12 average contractual exchange rate 0.76 pay canada dollars /receive us$ 441 441 (5 ) average contractual exchange rate 1.12 pay yen /receive us$ 231 231 3 average contractual exchange rate 115.10 pay new zealand dollars /receive us$ 126 126 (4 ) average contractual exchange rate 0.63 pay south african rand /receive us$ 91 91 7 average contractual exchange rate 7.10 pay hungary forint /receive us$ 42 42 average contractual exchange rate 215.93 pay czech koruna /receive us$ 27 27 1 average contractual exchange rate 21.81 pay singapore dollar /receive us$ 21 21 average contractual exchange rate 1.57 55 pay polish zloty /receive us$ 17 17 average contractual exchange rate 3.03 pay hong kong dollar /receive us$ 11 11 average contractual exchange rate 7.76 pay swedish krona /receive us$ 11 11 average contractual exchange rate 7.15 pay denmark kroner /receive us$ 5 5 average contractual exchange rate 5.80 (1) weighted-average variable interest rates are based on applicable rates at september 29, 2006 per the terms of the contracts of the related financial instruments. in addition to the forward foreign currency exchange contracts presented in the table above, the company held forward contracts in 15 different currency pairs, with individual notional amounts that are not material.risk factors 13 risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. risks relating to our businesses cyclical industry and economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results can be adversely affected by the general cyclical pattern of certain industries in which we operate. for example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial construction, the amount of discretionary consumer and business spending and the performance of the housing market, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. a downturn in any of these industries or the deterioration in general global economic conditions could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. there can be no assurances that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at 13 properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and /or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs of approximately $40 million, of which $11 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $29 million is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. we assessed the recoverability of goodwill upon the realignment of our business in connection with the separation, which resulted in a $46 million charge for goodwill. future impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are named as a defendant in a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, product liability litigation, employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect 14 on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. some of the lawsuits outstanding against us relate to actions taken by our former senior corporate management. on may 14, 2007, we entered into a proposed settlement with respect to most of the class actions and deposited $2.975 billion into an escrow accounts pending final settlement of such class actions. we do not believe that it is feasible to predict or determine the final outcome or resolution of the unresolved proceedings. a failure to consummate the proposed settlement on the agreed terms or an adverse outcome from the unresolved proceedings or liabilities or other proceedings could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations. the nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot assure you, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our adt business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business were 12.3%, 14.2% and 15.0% on a trailing 12-month basis as of september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005, respectively. although rates have decreased, if attrition rates were to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if the attrition rates were to rise tyco may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; develop and maintain competitive products; enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we anticipate. for example, on february 18, 2008, the federal communications commission will allow its mandate to wireless cellular carriers requiring them to maintain analog cellular service to expire. as a result, we expect the cellular communicators in certain of our security systems to become obsolete. we have begun the process of upgrading the affected devices to digital technology, which has resulted in additional expenses in our fiscal fourth quarter, and we expect to incur additional expenses in the future. if we fail to complete this upgrade, it could result in the loss of customers. moreover, the failure of our technology or products to gain market acceptance or their obsolescence could 15 significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. tyco's global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, tyco obtains or receives information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and foreign international trade laws. when tyco receives information alleging improper activity, its policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting its findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from acts by our employees that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by 16 the countries in which they operate. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals, and wireline telephone companies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. in october 2004, the u.s. congress enacted legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. such legislation did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. more recently, several proposals have been introduced in the u.s. house of representatives that, if ultimately enacted by the u.s. congress, would have limited treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on tyco, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we could face product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have significant foreign operations, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries. we have significant operations outside of the united states. we currently operate in approximately 60 countries. we generated 53% of our net revenue outside of the united states in 2007. we expect net revenue generated outside of the united states to continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; 17 compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions; changes in enacted tax laws; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and fluctuations in equity and revenues due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations or cash flows. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see part ii item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2007 was 53% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the foreign countries where we sell our products, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including gas, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. for example, in july 2007, the board of directors approved for divestiture infrastructure services. any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. we have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis. in connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes as of september 29, 2006. for a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see "management's report on internal control over financial reporting" under item 9a, "controls and procedures." a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. we have determined that further improvements are required in our tax accounting processes before we can consider the material weakness remediated. management's procedures and testing identified errors that, although not material to the consolidated financial statements, led management to conclude that control deficiencies exist related to tax effecting consolidating entries, analysis and reconciliation of taxes receivable and taxes payable in non-u.s. jurisdictions, certain aspects of deferred taxes, and procedures with respect to classification of tax amounts in the consolidated balance sheet. as a result of these deficiencies, it is reasonably possible that internal controls over financial reporting may not have prevented or detected errors from occurring that could have been material, either individually or in the aggregate. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. while considerable actions have been taken to improve our internal controls in response to the identified material weakness related to certain aspects of accounting for income taxes, and further action steps to strengthen controls have been taken, additional work continues to address and remediate the identified material weakness. if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec and the new york stock exchange, including a delisting from the new york stock exchange, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. 19 risks relating to actions of tyco's former senior corporate management pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco, some members of our former senior corporate management, former members of our board of directors and our former general counsel are named defendants in a number of purported class actions alleging violations of certain disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. tyco, certain of our current and former employees, some members of our former senior corporate management and some former members of our board of directors also are named as defendants in several erisa class actions. on may 14, 2007, we entered into a proposed settlement with respect to most of the class actions and deposited $2.975 billion into an escrow account pending final settlement of such class actions. we generally are obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, we cannot estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of all of these matters or from a failure to consummate the proposed settlement on the agreed terms. continued scrutiny resulting from ongoing governmental investigations may have an adverse effect on our business. we and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec, the u.s. department of labor, state departments of labor, the general service administration and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. certain current and former employees in adt worldwide received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to discontinued accounting practices regarding adt dealer connect fees. the u.s. department of labor is investigating tyco and the administrators of certain of our benefit plans. similarly, several of our businesses periodically are the subject of state or local government wage and hour investigations. at this time, we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with governmental instrumentalities, which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers, or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot predict whether the effects and results of these or other investigations will have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent 20 to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. also during 2006, the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. the company has yet to complete proposed amendments to its u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which will primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. when the company's tax return positions are updated additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the consolidated financial statements. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. in making this estimate, we have not assumed the need to make any material payments in connection with pending litigation or investigations. any material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. additional negative publicity may adversely affect our business. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco was the subject of negative publicity focusing on these actions. this negative publicity contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities in 2002 and brought increased regulatory scrutiny upon us. additional negative publicity related to former senior corporate management's actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows and the market price of our publicly traded securities. 21 our senior corporate management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from actions of prior management. as a result of the actions of prior management, we replaced our senior corporate executives with a new team during 2002 through 2004, and a new board of directors was elected at our annual general meeting of shareholders in march 2003. we cannot provide assurance that the distractions related to matters arising from the actions of prior management will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. risks relating to the separations if the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the u.s. internal revenue service regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986. the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, we have obtained opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and tyco electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the internal revenue service could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and tyco electronics common shares distributed to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement that we have entered into with covidien and tyco electronics in connection with the separation, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions are determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or tyco electronics as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, then we, covidien and tyco electronics would be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, covidien or tyco electronics as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. 22 we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the separation, primarily those relating to shareholder litigation. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation plan or the separation brought by any third party. contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which are allocated 100% to the relevant company. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. many lawsuits are outstanding against tyco, some of which relate to actions taken by its former senior corporate management. on may 14, 2007, we entered into a proposed settlement with respect to most of the class actions. we do not believe that it is feasible to predict the final outcome or resolution of the unresolved proceedings. although we will share any costs and expenses arising out of this litigation with covidien and tyco electronics, a failure to consummate the proposed settlement on the agreed terms or an adverse outcome from the unresolved proceedings or liabilities or other proceedings for which we will assume joint and several liability under the separation and distribution agreement could be material with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in any given reporting period. we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. 23 we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the separation because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted after separation in order to preserve for u.s. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution. in addition, similar limitations and restrictions will apply to covidien and tyco electronics. the distribution of common shares of covidien and tyco electronics to our shareholders may result in corporate level taxable gain to us under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. for this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, covidien or tyco electronics may be able to rebut that presumption. we are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of our common shares within the two years before the distribution. if an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares triggers the application of section 355(e) of the code, we would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, certain subsidiaries of covidien or tyco electronics or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to fail to qualify as tax-free or tax-favored transactions, as the case maybe, including entering into, approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distributions, unless we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. covidien and tyco electronics are subject to similar restrictions under the tax sharing agreement. moreover, the tax sharing agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as tax-favored transactions under the code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties consent to such actions or the responsible party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. for example, we would be responsible for a third party's acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. these restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our shareholders and noteholders. 24 continuing demands on our management team as a result of the separation could distract management's attention from operating the business. the complexity of the separation has required and will continue to require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must devote continued time and attention to fulfilling tyco's obligations under the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement, including the defense and settlement of litigation related to shared contingent and other corporate liabilities of tyco, covidien and tyco electronics and the administration of the u.s. tax audit for periods up to june 29, 2007. at the same time, our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve reductions in corporate expense following the separation. these and related demands on our administrative resources may distract management from the day-to-day operation of tyco's business. as a result our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect will be achieved from the separation. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect will result from the separation of two of tyco's segments into independent companies or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. for example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will regard tyco's post-separation corporate structure as more clear and simple than its pre-separation corporate structure or place a greater value on the businesses remaining with tyco post-separation than they placed on those businesses pre-separation. risks related to corporate governance we are subject to governmental investigations that might have serious consequences. we are now, and believe that in light of the current u.s. governmental contracting environment we will continue to be, the subject of one or more u.s. governmental investigations. if we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any u.s. governmental investigations, including violation of certain environmental or export laws, we could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new u.s. governmental contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. if convicted or found liable, we could be subject to fines, penalties, repayments and treble and other damages. any contracts found to be tainted by fraud could be voided by the u.s. government. the u.s. government also reserves the right to prohibit a contractor from receiving new governmental contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct. independently, failure to comply with u.s. laws and regulations related to the export of goods and technology outside the united states could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of our export privileges. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. 25 we are unable to predict the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws applicable to u.s. companies and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 81 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2007 was 53% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the foreign countries where we sell our products, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including gas, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. for example, in july 2007, the board of directors approved for divestiture infrastructure services. any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. we have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis. in connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes as of september 29, 2006. for a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see "management's report on internal control over financial reporting" under item 9a, "controls and procedures." a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. we have determined that further improvements are required in our tax accounting processes before we can consider the material weakness remediated. management's procedures and testing identified errors that, although not material to the consolidated financial statements, led management to conclude that control deficiencies exist related to tax effecting consolidating entries, analysis and reconciliation of taxes receivable and taxes payable in non-u.s. jurisdictions, certain aspects of deferred taxes, and procedures with respect to classification of tax amounts in the consolidated balance sheet. as a result of these deficiencies, it is reasonably possible that internal controls over financial reporting may not have prevented or detected errors from occurring that could have been material, either individually or in the aggregate. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. while considerable actions have been taken to improve our internal controls in response to the identified material weakness related to certain aspects of accounting for income taxes, and further action steps to strengthen controls have been taken, additional work continues to address and remediate the identified material weakness. if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec and the new york stock exchange, including a delisting from the new york stock exchange, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. 19 risks relating to actions of tyco's former senior corporate management pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco, some members of our former senior corporate management, former members of our board of directors and our former general counsel are named defendants in a number of purported class actions alleging violations of certain disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. tyco, certain of our current and former employees, some members of our former senior corporate management and some former members of our board of directors also are named as defendants in several erisa class actions. on may 14, 2007, we entered into a proposed settlement with respect to most of the class actions and deposited $2.975 billion into an escrow account pending final settlement of such class actions. we generally are obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, we cannot estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of all of these matters or from a failure to consummate the proposed settlement on the agreed terms. continued scrutiny resulting from ongoing governmental investigations may have an adverse effect on our business. we and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec, the u.s. department of labor, state departments of labor, the general service administration and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. certain current and former employees in adt worldwide received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to discontinued accounting practices regarding adt dealer connect fees. the u.s. department of labor is investigating tyco and the administrators of certain of our benefit plans. similarly, several of our businesses periodically are the subject of state or local government wage and hour investigations. at this time, we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with governmental instrumentalities, which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers, or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot predict whether the effects and results of these or other investigations will have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent 20 to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. also during 2006, the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. the company has yet to complete proposed amendments to its u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which will primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. when the company's tax return positions are updated additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the consolidated financial statements. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. in making this estimate, we have not assumed the need to make any material payments in connection with pending litigation or investigations. any material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. additional negative publicity may adversely affect our business. as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management, tyco was the subject of negative publicity focusing on these actions. this negative publicity contributed to significant declines in the prices of our publicly traded securities in 2002 and brought increased regulatory scrutiny upon us. additional negative publicity related to former senior corporate management's actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows and the market price of our publicly traded securities. 21 our senior corporate management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from actions of prior management. as a result of the actions of prior management, we replaced our senior corporate executives with a new team during 2002 through 2004, and a new board of directors was elected at our annual general meeting of shareholders in march 2003. we cannot provide assurance that the distractions related to matters arising from the actions of prior management will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. risks relating to the separations if the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the u.s. internal revenue service regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986. the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, we have obtained opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and tyco electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the internal revenue service could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and tyco electronics common shares distributed to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement that we have entered into with covidien and tyco electronics in connection with the separation, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions are determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or tyco electronics as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, then we, covidien and tyco electronics would be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, covidien or tyco electronics as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. 22 we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the separation, primarily those relating to shareholder litigation. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation plan or the separation brought by any third party. contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which are allocated 100% to the relevant company. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. many lawsuits are outstanding against tyco, some of which relate to actions taken by its former senior corporate management. on may 14, 2007, we entered into a proposed settlement with respect to most of the class actions. we do not believe that it is feasible to predict the final outcome or resolution of the unresolved proceedings. although we will share any costs and expenses arising out of this litigation with covidien and tyco electronics, a failure to consummate the proposed settlement on the agreed terms or an adverse outcome from the unresolved proceedings or liabilities or other proceedings for which we will assume joint and several liability under the separation and distribution agreement could be material with respect to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in any given reporting period. we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. 23 we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the separation because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted after separation in order to preserve for u.s. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution. in addition, similar limitations and restrictions will apply to covidien and tyco electronics. the distribution of common shares of covidien and tyco electronics to our shareholders may result in corporate level taxable gain to us under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. for this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, covidien or tyco electronics may be able to rebut that presumption. we are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of our common shares within the two years before the distribution. if an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares triggers the application of section 355(e) of the code, we would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, certain subsidiaries of covidien or tyco electronics or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to fail to qualify as tax-free or tax-favored transactions, as the case maybe, including entering into, approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distributions, unless we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. covidien and tyco electronics are subject to similar restrictions under the tax sharing agreement. moreover, the tax sharing agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as tax-favored transactions under the code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties consent to such actions or the responsible party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. for example, we would be responsible for a third party's acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. these restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our shareholders and noteholders. 24 continuing demands on our management team as a result of the separation could distract management's attention from operating the business. the complexity of the separation has required and will continue to require a substantial amount of management and operational resources. our management team must devote continued time and attention to fulfilling tyco's obligations under the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement, including the defense and settlement of litigation related to shared contingent and other corporate liabilities of tyco, covidien and tyco electronics and the administration of the u.s. tax audit for periods up to june 29, 2007. at the same time, our management team must successfully implement administrative and operational changes necessary to achieve reductions in corporate expense following the separation. these and related demands on our administrative resources may distract management from the day-to-day operation of tyco's business. as a result our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect will be achieved from the separation. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect will result from the separation of two of tyco's segments into independent companies or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. for example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will regard tyco's post-separation corporate structure as more clear and simple than its pre-separation corporate structure or place a greater value on the businesses remaining with tyco post-separation than they placed on those businesses pre-separation. risks related to corporate governance we are subject to governmental investigations that might have serious consequences. we are now, and believe that in light of the current u.s. governmental contracting environment we will continue to be, the subject of one or more u.s. governmental investigations. if we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any u.s. governmental investigations, including violation of certain environmental or export laws, we could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new u.s. governmental contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. if convicted or found liable, we could be subject to fines, penalties, repayments and treble and other damages. any contracts found to be tainted by fraud could be voided by the u.s. government. the u.s. government also reserves the right to prohibit a contractor from receiving new governmental contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct. independently, failure to comply with u.s. laws and regulations related to the export of goods and technology outside the united states could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of our export privileges. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation legislation and negative publicity regarding bermuda companies could affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. legislation relating to government contracts we continue to assess the potential impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd., a massachusetts corporation, by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. 25 we are unable to predict the likelihood or final form in which any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. negative publicity there is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws applicable to u.s. companies and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties our operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world aggregating approximately 39 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately 16 million square feet are owned and approximately 23 million square feet are leased. these facilities house manufacturing, distribution and warehousing operations, as well as sales and marketing, engineering and administrative offices. adt worldwide operates through a network of offices located in north america, central america, south america, europe, the middle east, the asia-pacific region and south africa. our adt worldwide manufacturing facilities are located in north america, and europe. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 1 million square feet are owned and 5 million square feet are leased. 26 fire protection services operates through a network of offices located in north america, central america, south america, europe, and the asia-pacific region. our fire protection services manufacturing facilities are located in north america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 1 million square feet are owned and 5 million square feet are leased. flow control has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe, and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 12 million square feet, of which 6 million square feet are owned and 6 million square feet are leased. safety products operates through a network of offices located in north america, south america, europe, and the asia-pacific region. our safety products manufacturing facilities are located in north america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 3 million square feet are owned and 3 million square feet are leased. electrical and metal products has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe, and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 7 million square feet, of which 5 million square feet are owned and 2 million square feet are leased. in the opinion of management, our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. we do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. see note 16 to consolidated financial statements for a description of our lease obligations. item 3. legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including product liability matters, environmental matters, employment disputes, disputes on agreements and other commercial disputes. in addition, we operate in an industry susceptible to significant patent legal claims. at any given time in the ordinary course of business, we are involved as either a plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement actions. if infringement of a third party's patent were to be determined against us, we might be required to make significant royalty or other payments or might be subject to an injunction or other limitation on our ability to manufacture or sell one or more products. if a patent owned by or licensed to us were determined to be invalid or unenforceable, we might be required to reduce the value of the patent on our balance sheet and to record a corresponding charge, which could be significant in amount. in connection with the separation, we entered into a liability sharing agreement regarding certain class actions that were pending against tyco prior to the separation. subject to the terms and conditions of the separation and distribution agreement, we will manage and control all the legal matters related to assumed contingent liabilities as described in the separation and distribution agreement, including the defense or settlement thereof, subject to certain limitations. a description of the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement regarding these class actions can be found in tyco's current report on form 8-k filed with the securities and exchange commission ("sec") on july 6, 2007. securities class actions as previously reported in our periodic filings, tyco and certain of our former directors and officers have been named as defendants in over 40 purported securities class action suits. we stipulated, pursuant to a court order, that each party to the separation and distribution agreement would be primarily liable for a portion of the obligations arising from such litigation. the stipulation also 27 provides that if any party defaults on its obligations, the other parties would be jointly and severally liable for those obligations. most of the securities class actions have now been transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings. on january 28, 2003, a consolidated securities class action complaint was filed in these proceedings. on january 7, 2005, the company answered the plaintiffs' consolidated complaint. on january 14, 2005, lead plaintiffs made a motion for class certification, which the company opposed on july 22, 2005. on july 5, 2005, the company moved for revision of the court's october 14, 2004 order in light of a change in law, insofar as the order denied the company's motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint for failure to plead loss causation. on december 2, 2005, the court denied the company's motion. on april 4, 2006 plaintiffs filed a partial motion for summary judgment that was denied without prejudice to its later renewal. on june 12, 2006, the court entered an order certifying a class "consisting of all persons and entities who purchased or otherwise acquired tyco securities between december 13, 1999 and june 7, 2002, and who were damaged thereby, excluding defendants, all of the officers, directors and partners thereof, members of their immediate families and their legal representatives, heirs, successors or assigns, and any entity in which any of the foregoing have or had a controlling interest." on june 26, 2006, tyco filed a petition for leave to appeal the class certification order to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit. on september 22, 2006, the united states court of appeals for the first circuit denied tyco's petition. class action settlement on may 14, 2007, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with plaintiffs' counsel in connection with the settlement of 32 purported securities class action lawsuits. the actions previously had been consolidated and transferred by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire and include williams v. tyco international ltd. , brazen v. tyco international ltd., et al. , philip cirella v. tyco international ltd., et al. , hromyak v. tyco international ltd., et al. , myers v. tyco international ltd., et al. , goldfarb v. tyco international ltd., et al. , rappold v. tyco international ltd., et al. , mandel v. tyco international ltd., et al. , and schuldt v. tyco international ltd., et al. and 23 other consolidated securities cases. the memorandum of understanding does not resolve the following securities cases, which remain outstanding: stumpf v. tyco international ltd. , new jersey v. tyco international ltd., et al. , ballard v. tyco international ltd. , jasin v. tyco international ltd., et al. , and hall v. kozlowski, et al . the proposed settlement does not release claims arising under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, 29 u.s.c. sec. 1001, et seq. ("erisa"), which are not common to all class members, including any claims asserted in overby, et al. v. tyco international ltd. , civil action no. 02-md-1357-pb. under the terms of the memorandum of understanding, the plaintiffs agreed to release all claims against tyco, the other settling defendants and ten other individuals in consideration for the payment of $2.975 billion from tyco to the certified class and assignment to the class of any net recovery of any claims possessed by tyco and the other settling defendants against tyco's former auditor, pricewaterhousecoopers. defendant pricewaterhousecoopers was not a settling defendant and is not a party to the memorandum. however, pricewaterhousecoopers subsequently agreed to participate in the settlement as a settling defendant, and in consideration of a release of all claims against it by the parties to the memorandum of understanding, agreed to make a payment of $225 million. we and the other settling defendants have denied and continue to deny any wrongdoing and legal liability arising from any of the facts or conduct alleged in the actions. pursuant to the terms of the memorandum of understanding, l. dennis kozlowski, mark h. swartz and frank e. walsh, jr., also are excluded from the settling defendants, and the class will assign 28 to tyco all of their claims against defendants kozlowski, swartz and walsh. in exchange, we will agree to pay to the certified class 50% of any net recovery against these defendants. the parties to the memorandum of understanding have applied to the court for approval of the settlement agreement. on july 13, 2007, the u. s. district court in concord, new hampshire granted preliminary approval of the settlement. on november 2, 2007, the final fairness hearing for the class settlement was held. the court indicated it would approve the settlement and stated a formal ruling would be issued in a few weeks. if the settlement agreement does not receive final court approval, the memorandum of understanding will be null and void. by december 28, 2007, class participants must file their proofs of claim demonstrating their right to recovery under the class settlement. the deadline for deciding not to participate in the class settlement was september 28, 2007. as of such date, tyco had received opt-out notices from individuals and entities totaling approximately 4% of the shares owned by class members. these individuals and entities may pursue their claims separately against tyco and any judgments resulting from such claims would not reduce the settlement amount. one entity, franklin mutual advisers, llc, has filed a complaint against tyco on september 24, 2007 in an action styled franklin mutual advisers, llc v. tyco international ltd. in the united states district court for the district of new jersey alleging violations of section 11 of the securities act of 1933, 15 u.s.c. sec. 77(b), section 10(b) of the securities and exchange act of 1934, 15 u.s.c. sec. 78(b), and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder and section 18 of the securities and exchange act of 1934, 15 u.s.c. sec. 78(k) in connection with the plaintiffs' purchases and sales of tyco securities between june 4, 2001 and april 30, 2002. the plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages and reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. tyco has requested that this action be transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. tyco intends to vigorously defend this litigation. it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome or to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of the franklin matter or other unasserted claims from individuals that have opted-out. under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement entered into in connection with the separation, each of tyco, covidien and tyco electronics are jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the class action settlement and any judgments resulting from opt-out claims. additionally, under the separation and distribution agreement, the companies will share in the liability and related escrow accounts, with tyco assuming 27%, covidien 42% and tyco electronics 31% of the settlement amount. tyco incurred a charge to expense, for which no tax benefit is available, and a current liability of $2.975 billion in 2007. the company has also recovered or expects to recover certain of these costs from insurers. as such, the company recorded $113 million of recoveries in connection with the class action settlement in its consolidated statements of operations. tyco borrowed under its unsecured bridge and credit facilities to fund the liability and placed the proceeds in escrow for the benefit of the class. in connection with the separation, covidien and tyco electronics assumed their portion of the related borrowing. the escrow accounts will earn interest that is payable to the class. interest is also accrued on the class action settlement liability. based on the separation and distribution agreement, at september 28, 2007, tyco had a receivable from covidien and tyco electronics for their portion of the liability of $1,257 million and $927 million, respectively, and a payable to covidien and tyco electronics for their interest in the escrow accounts. receivables and payables that pertain to the class action settlement and related escrow accounts with the same counterparty are presented net in the consolidated balance sheet. tyco's portion of the liability is $808 million. additionally, tyco has paid $73 million and recorded payables of $9 million at september 28, 2007, with an offset to shareholders' equity for amounts due to covidien and tyco electronics for their portion of the insurance recovery. if the proposed settlement were not consummated on the agreed terms or if the unresolved proceedings were to be determined adversely to tyco, it is possible that the company will be required 29 to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. at this time, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or probable losses, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. securities class action proceedings as previously reported in our periodic filings, an action entitled hess v. tyco international ltd., et al., was filed on june 3, 2004 in the superior court of the state of california for the county of los angeles against certain of our former directors and officers, our former auditors and tyco. the complaint asserts claims of fraud, negligent representation, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, tortious interference with fiduciary relationship and conspiracy arising out of an underlying settlement of litigation brought by shareholders in progressive angioplasty systems, inc. where the plaintiffs received our stock as consideration. the claim seeks unspecified monetary damages and other relief. on october 25, 2006, the court lifted its previous order staying the case during the pendency of a related arbitration to which tyco was not a party. on december 26, 2006, tyco filed a demurrer seeking dismissal of the action on the ground that the complaint failed to allege facts sufficient to state causes of action. before argument could be heard on the demurrer, the plaintiffs notified the court that they would file an amended complaint. the amended complaint was filed on july 9, 2007. the amended complaint asserts claims of fraud, negligent representation, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of fiduciary duty in connection with, and subsequent to, an underlying settlement of litigation brought by shareholders in progressive angioplasty systems, inc. where the plaintiffs received our stock as consideration. the amended complaint alleges collective losses of not less than $20 million and seeks compensatory and punitive damages. on september 13, 2007, tyco filed its answer to the complaint. the parties have also begun to engage in discovery, serving document requests and interrogatories. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on october 30, 2003, stumpf v. tyco international ltd. was transferred to the district court of new hampshire by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation. the complaint asserts claims against tyco based on section 11 of the securities act of 1933, 15 u.s.c. sec. 77(k), section 15 of the securities act, 15 u.s.c. sec. 77(o), section 10(b) of the securities and exchange act of 1934, 15 u.s.c. sec. 78j(b), and sec. 20(a) of the exchange act, 15 u.s.c. sec. 78t(a). in orders dated september 2, 2005 and january 6, 2005, the court denied tyco's motion to dismiss. on june 12, 2007, the court certified a purported class consisting of "all persons or entities who purchased tycom stock, either pursuant to a july 26, 2000, registration statement and prospectus for tycom's initial public offering, or on the open market between july 26, 2000 and december 17, 2001." on june 26, 2007, tyco and tycom filed a rule 23(f) petition seeking leave to appeal the class certification order. on september 13, 2007, the united states court of appeals for the first circuit denied tyco's petition. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on november 27, 2002 the state of new jersey, on behalf of several state pension funds, filed a complaint, new jersey v. tyco international ltd., et al. , in the united states district court for the district of new jersey against tyco, our former auditors and certain of our former officers and directors. the complaint was amended on february 11, 2005. as against all defendants, the amended complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, for common law fraud, aiding and abetting common law fraud, conspiracy to commit fraud and negligent misrepresentation. claims are asserted against the individual defendants under section 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, section 15 of the securities act of 1933, section 24(d) of the new jersey uniform securities law, section 421-b:25(iii) of the new hampshire uniform securities law, and for breaches of fiduciary duties. claims are also asserted against certain of the individual defendants under section 20a of the securities exchange act of 1934, and for violation of the new jersey rico statute; 30 against tyco under section 12(a)(2) of the securities act of 1933, section 24(c) of the new jersey uniform securities law, section 421-b:25(ii) of the new hampshire uniform securities law, and for violation of, aiding and abetting violation of, and vicarious liability under the new jersey rico statute; against tyco and certain of the individual defendants under section 14(a) of the securities act of 1933 and rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder, and for conspiracy to violate the new jersey rico statute; against tyco, its former auditors, and certain of the individual defendants under section 11 of the securities act of 1933, and for violation of, and conspiracy to violate the new jersey rico statute; and against our former auditors and certain of the individual defendants for aiding and abetting violation of the new jersey rico statute. finally, claims are asserted against the individual defendants and our former auditors for aiding and abetting the individual defendants' breaches of fiduciary duties. plaintiffs assert that the defendants violated the securities laws and otherwise engaged in fraudulent acts by making materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, the following: unauthorized and improper compensation of certain of our former executives; their improper use of our funds for personal benefit and their improper self-dealing in real estate. the plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages and other relief. on june 10, 2005, tyco moved to dismiss in part the amended complaint. on june 11, 2007, the court granted in part and denied in part tyco's motion to dismiss. many of the above plaintiffs' claims remain pending. on july 24, 2007, the plaintiffs moved for leave to amend their complaint again. tyco responded in opposition to the motion on august 10, 2007, and the court has not yet ruled on the plaintiffs' motion. as previously reported in our periodic filings, the company appealed to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit the decision of the united states district court for the district of new hampshire to remand brazen v. tyco international ltd., et al. to the circuit court for cook county, illinois and hromyak v. tyco international ltd., et al., goldfarb v. tyco international ltd., et al., mandel v. tyco international ltd., et al., myers v. tyco international ltd., et al., rappold v. tyco international ltd., et al., and schuldt v. tyco international ltd., et al. to the circuit court for palm beach county, florida. plaintiffs moved to dismiss the company's appeal. on december 29, 2004, the united states court of appeals for the first circuit granted plaintiffs' motion and dismissed the company's appeal. the company moved in the circuit court for palm beach county, florida to stay and to strike the class allegations in goldfarb , mandel , myers , rappold , and schuldt . the circuit court granted tyco's motion to dismiss hromyak . the florida district court of appeal affirmed the dismissal. these cases were included in the proposed settlement of the securities class action, which is contingent upon these cases being dismissed. as previously reported in our periodic filings, after filing an initial complaint on june 26, 2002, plaintiff lionel i. brazen filed an amended class action complaint, on march 10, 2005, in the circuit court for cook county, illinois purporting to represent a class of purchasers who exchanged shares of mallinckrodt, inc. common stock for shares of tyco common stock pursuant to the joint proxy statement and prospectus, and the registration statement in which it was included, in connection with the october 17, 2000 merger of tyco and mallinckrodt, inc. plaintiff names as defendants tyco international ltd., and certain former tyco executives and asserts causes of action under section 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the securities act of 1933. the amended class action complaint alleges that the defendants made statements in the registration statement and the joint proxy statement and prospectus that were materially false and misleading and failed to disclose material adverse facts regarding the business and operations of tyco. the amended class action complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and other relief. on april 21, 2005, the company moved in the circuit court for cook county, illinois to dismiss or stay or, in the alternative, to strike the class allegations. on july 22, 2005, the court denied the company's motion. on august 19, 2005, tyco filed an interlocutory appeal of the circuit court for cook county illinois' july 22, 2005 memorandum and order, which was subsequently denied. on january 6, 2006, the plaintiff, joined by an additional named plaintiff nancy hammerslough, filed a renewed motion for class certification which was granted. on february 14, 2006, tyco filed its answer to the complaint. on july 5, 2006, plaintiffs filed a partial motion for summary 31 judgment which was denied on november 8, 2006. on november 22, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion to reconsider the denial of their motion for summary judgment. on january 25, 2007, the court denied plaintiffs' motion to reconsider. this case was included in the proposed settlement of the securities class action, which settlement is contingent upon this case being dismissed. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on april 29, 2005, an action was filed against tyco in the united states district court for the southern district of florida, stevenson v. tyco international ltd., et al. plaintiff named as additional defendants our current chief executive officer, edward breen, our former chief financial officer, david fitzpatrick, our former executive vice president and general counsel, william lytton, current members of tyco's board of directors including dennis blair, bruce gordon, john krol, carl mccall, mackey mcdonald, brendan o'neill, sandra wijnberg, and jerome york, as well as former members of tyco's board of directors, including michael ashcroft, joshua berman, richard bodman, john fort, steven foss, wendy lane, james pasman, peter slusser and joseph welch. the complaint asserts causes of action under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. the complaint alleged that defendants made material misrepresentations that resulted in artificially deflated stock prices. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on march 31, 2007, tyco filed a motion to dismiss the complaint and the court granted the motion to dismiss on june 13, 2007. on january 31, 2003 a civil action was filed by three plaintiffs in the united states district court for the district of new jersey, cirella v. tyco international et al . plaintiff named as defendants tyco international ltd., dennis kozlowski, mark h. swartz and mark a. belnick. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. this case was included in the proposed settlement of the securities class action, which is contingent upon the case being dismissed. as previously reported in our periodic filings, on january 20, 2004, a complaint was filed in the united states district court for the southern district of new york, ballard v. tyco international ltd., et al. plaintiffs are trustees of various trusts that were allegedly major shareholders of amp, inc., a company acquired by tyco in april 1999. plaintiffs name as defendants tyco, five of its former officers and directors and pricewaterhousecoopers llp ("pwc"). as against all defendants, the complaint asserts causes of action under sections 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and section 11 of the securities act of 1933. as against the tyco defendants, the complaint asserts causes of action under section 14(a) of the securities exchange act and rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder; section 12(a)(2) of the securities act; and for common law fraud and negligent misrepresentation. as against the individual defendants, the complaint asserts causes of action under section 20(a) of the securities exchange act and section 15 of the securities act. the complaint alleges that defendants engaged in a scheme to artificially inflate tyco's earnings and to mislead investors as to tyco's positive earnings, growth and acquisition synergies prior to and in connection with its acquisition of amp, inc. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred the action to the district of new hampshire. tyco moved to dismiss the complaint, and that motion was denied. on august 5, 2005, defendant michael a. ashcroft's motion to dismiss with respect to the plaintiffs' claims under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities exchange act, section 15 of the securities act, and common law fraud and negligent misrepresentation claims was granted. as previously reported in our periodic filings, a complaint, sciallo v. tyco international ltd., et al ., was filed on september 30, 2003 in the united states district court for the southern district of new york. the plaintiffs purport to be former executives of u.s. surgical who traded their u.s. surgical stock options for tyco international, ltd. stock options when tyco acquired u.s. surgical on october 1, 1998. plaintiffs name as defendants tyco international ltd. and certain former tyco directors and executives. the complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, for common law fraud and negligence, and violation 32 of new york general business law section 349, which prohibits deceptive acts and practices in the conduct of any business. the complaint alleges that defendants made materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, tyco's financial condition and accounting practices. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. as previously reported in our periodic filings, a complaint was filed on september 2, 2004 in the court of common pleas for dauphin county, pennsylvania, jasin v. tyco international ltd., et al. this pro se plaintiff named as additional defendants tyco international (us) inc., l. dennis kozlowski, our former chairman and chief executive officer, mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director and juergen w. gromer, president of tyco electronics. plaintiff's complaint asserts causes of action under section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, as well as section 11 of the securities act of 1933. claims against messrs. kozlowski, swartz and gromer are also asserted under section 14(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 and rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder and section 20a of the securities exchange act of 1934, as well as sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the securities act of 1933. plaintiff also asserts common law fraud, negligent misrepresentation, unfair trade practice, breach of contract, breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing and violation of section 1-402 of the pennsylvania securities act of 1972. tyco has removed the complaint to the united states district court for the middle district of pennsylvania. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. as previously reported in our periodic filings, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation was notified that hall v. kozlowski, et al. an action relating to plaintiff's employment, 401(k) and pension plans and ownership of tyco stock, may be an action that should be transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. thereafter, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred the action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on march 16, 2005, tyco international (us) inc. answered plaintiff's amended complaint. as previously reported in our periodic filings, plaintiff moved to remand davis v. kozlowski et al ., an action originally filed on december 9, 2003, from the united states district court for the district of new hampshire back to the circuit court of cook county, illinois. on march 17, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire granted plaintiff's motion to remand and denied defendants' motion to dismiss. on march 31, 2005, the company moved for reconsideration of the court's remand order. on july 17, 2006, the court entered an order granting tyco's motion to dismiss on the grounds that all of plaintiff's claims were preempted by federal law. the motion to dismiss was granted without prejudice to plaintiff's right to file another action in state court asserting claims that are not preempted by federal law. on january 8, 2007, plaintiff filed an action in the circuit court of cook county, illinois. the complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and other relief. on january 12, 2007, tyco removed the re-filed action to federal court in the united states district court for the northern district of illinois, eastern division. on february 1, 2007, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation (jpml) issued a conditional transfer order transferring the case to the district of new hampshire. plaintiffs filed a motion to remand the case to state court on february 12, 2007 and moved the jpml to vacate the conditional transfer order on march 9, 2007. we filed an opposition to the motion to vacate on march 29, 2007. on march 15, 2007, we filed an opposition to plaintiff's remand motion and filed a cross-motion to dismiss the action. briefing on the cross-motion was completed on april 26, 2007. on may 31, 2007, the jpml denied the motion to vacate the conditional transfer order. on june 15, 2007 the jpml transferred the case back to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on october 16, 2007, tyco filed its renewed cross-motion to dismiss the action. 33 shareholder derivative litigation as previously reported in our periodic filings, an action was filed on june 7, 2002 in the supreme court of the state of new york, levin v. kozlowski , alleging that the individually named defendants breached their fiduciary duties, committed waste and mismanagement and engaged in self-dealing in connection with tyco's accounting practices, individual board members' use of funds, and the financial disclosures of certain mergers and acquisitions. it is further alleged that certain of the individual defendants converted corporate assets for their own use. plaintiffs seek money damages. plaintiffs agreed to stay that action pending the resolution of the federal derivative action, which was dismissed by the united states district court for the district of new hampshire on october 14, 2004; and the appeal from that ruling was voluntarily dismissed on may 19, 2005. on june 14, 2005, the plaintiffs resumed the levin action. on september 22, 2005, the company filed a motion to dismiss the derivative complaint. on november 14, 2006, the supreme court of the state of new york dismissed the complaint with prejudice. on december 11, 2006, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of the court's november 14, 2006 order dismissing the complaint. on october 25, 2007, the supreme court of the state of new york, appellate division, first department, heard oral arguments in this action and on november 15, 2007, the court denied the plaintiff's appeal. erisa litigation as previously reported in our periodic filings, tyco and certain of our current and former employees, officers and directors, have been named as defendants in eight class actions brought under the employee retirement income security act ("erisa"). two of the actions were filed in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire and the six remaining actions were transferred to that court by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation. all eight actions have been consolidated in the district court in new hampshire. the consolidated complaint purports to bring claims on behalf of our retirement savings and investment plans and the participants therein and alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties under erisa by negligently misrepresenting and negligently failing to disclose material information concerning, among other things, the following: related-party transactions and executive compensation; our mergers and acquisitions and the accounting therefor, as well as allegedly undisclosed acquisitions; and misstatements of our financial results. the complaint also asserts that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by allowing the plans to invest in our shares when it was not a prudent investment. the complaints seek recovery of alleged plan losses arising from alleged breaches of fiduciary duties. on january 12, 2005, the united states district court for the district of new hampshire denied, without prejudice, the company's motion to dismiss certain additional individual defendants from the action. on january 20, 2005, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. on january 27, 2005, the company answered the plaintiffs' consolidated complaint. also, on january 28, 2005, the company and certain individual defendants filed a motion for reconsideration of the court's january 12, 2005 order, insofar as it related to our retirement committee. on may 25, 2005, the court denied the motion for reconsideration. on july 11, 2005, the company and certain individual defendants opposed plaintiffs' motion for class certification. on august 15, 2006, the court entered an order certifying a class "consisting of all participants in the plans for whose individual accounts the plans purchased and/or held shares of tyco stock fund at any time from august 12, 1998 to july 25, 2002." on august 29, 2006, tyco filed a petition for leave to appeal the class certification order to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit. on november 13, 2006, the united states court of appeals for the first circuit denied tyco's petition. on november 28, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking an order directing them to serve notice of the erisa class action on potential class members. tyco did not object to service of notice on potential class members, and on january 11, 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion, assented to by tyco that proposed an agreed upon form of notice. on january 18, 2007, the court granted that motion. on december 5, 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking leave to file an amended complaint. subsequently, on january 10, 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion to withdraw their motion to amend the complaint without prejudice. 34 erisa partial withdrawal liability assessment and demand on june 8, 2007, simplexgrinnell received a notice alleging that it had partially withdrawn from the national automatic sprinkler industry pension fund (the "fund"). under title iv of erisa, if the fund can prove that an employer completely or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan such as the fund, the employer is liable for withdrawal liability equal to its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits. the alleged withdrawal results from a 1994 labor dispute between grinnell fire protection systems, simplexgrinnell's predecessor, and road sprinkler fitters local union no. 669. erisa requires that payment of withdrawal liability be made in full or in quarterly installments commencing upon receipt of a liability assessment from the plan. a plan's assessment of withdrawal liability generally may be challenged only in arbitration, and erisa requires that quarterly payments must continue to be made during the pendency of the arbitration. if the employer prevails in arbitration (and any subsequent court appeals), its quarterly withdrawal liability payments are refunded with interest. the fund's total withdrawal liability assessment against simplexgrinnell is approximately $25 million, and the quarterly withdrawal liability payments are $1.1 million commencing on august 1, 2007. simplexgrinnell believes that it has strong arguments that no withdrawal liability is owed to the fund, and it plans to vigorously defend against the fund's withdrawal liability assessment by timely filing for arbitration. accordingly, the company has made no provision for this contingency in its consolidated financial statements. tyco litigation against former senior management tyco international ltd. v. l. dennis kozlowski, united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-7317, filed september 12, 2002, amended april 1, 2003. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former chairman and chief executive officer for breach of fiduciary duty and other wrongful conduct. the company amended that complaint on april 1, 2003. the amended complaint alleges that the defendant misappropriated millions of dollars from our key employee loan program and relocation program; awarded millions of dollars in unauthorized bonuses to himself and certain other tyco employees; engaged in improper self-dealing real estate transactions involving our assets; and conspired with certain other former tyco employees in committing these acts. the amended complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unjust enrichment, breach of contract, conversion, constructive trust, and other wrongful conduct. the amended complaint seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the former chairman and chief executive officer's conduct, and of all remuneration, including restricted and unrestricted shares and options, obtained by mr. kozlowski during the course of this conduct. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on october 6, 2003, mr. kozlowski filed a motion to dismiss or stay the case and compel arbitration, which was denied on march 16, 2004, with one exception relating to the arbitration of a claim asserting the fraudulent inducement of mr. kozlowski's retention agreement. on april 9, 2004, mr. kozlowski filed an answer, affirmative defenses and counterclaims, seeking amounts allegedly due pursuant to his purported retention agreement, life insurance policies, and other arrangements. tyco filed its reply to the counterclaims on april 29, 2004. discovery in this and the other affirmative cases is proceeding. mr. kozlowski was tried on criminal charges in new york county. the first criminal trial resulted in a mistrial declared on april 2, 2004. the retrial of mr. kozlowski began on january 18, 2005 and concluded on june 17, 2005, when the jury returned verdicts. of the thirty-one counts submitted to it, which were similar to certain of the claims alleged in the company's affirmative action described above, twenty-two were against mr. kozlowski. the jury found mr. kozlowski guilty on all charges of grand larceny, conspiracy and securities fraud, and all but one count of falsification of business records. on september 19, 2005, mr. kozlowski was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of eight and one-third 35 years to twenty-five years, and ordered to pay an individual fine of $70 million and restitution, jointly and severally with mr. swartz, to tyco of $134 million within one year. on september 19, 2005, mr. kozlowski filed a notice of appeal from his conviction and on october 3, 2006 filed a brief in support of his appeal. on january 2, 2007, by order of the supreme court of the state of new york, the new york county district attorney's office released to tyco, on behalf of mr. kozlowski, $98 million in restitution. the payment by mr. kozlowski was made pending the outcome of his appeal, which was denied on november 15, 2007. tyco international ltd. v. mark h. swartz, united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 03-cv-2247 (tpg), filed april 1, 2003. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed an arbitration claim against mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director, on october 7, 2002. as a consequence of mr. swartz's refusal to submit to the jurisdiction of the american arbitration association, we filed a civil complaint against him on april 1, 2003, for breach of fiduciary duty and other wrongful conduct. the action alleges that the defendant misappropriated millions of dollars from our key employees loan program and relocation program; approved and implemented awards of millions of dollars of unauthorized bonuses to himself and certain other tyco employees; awarded millions of dollars in unauthorized payments to himself; engaged in improper self dealing real estate transactions involving our assets; and conspired with certain other former tyco employees in committing these acts. the complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unjust enrichment, conversion, and constructive trust, and other wrongful conduct. the action seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the former chief financial officer and director's conduct, and all remuneration, including restricted and unrestricted shares and options, obtained by mr. swartz during the course of this conduct. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. mr. swartz moved to dismiss tyco's complaint and to compel arbitration of the parties' respective claims. the court denied swartz's motion and he has appealed the court's decision to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit. his appeal was heard on december 8, 2004. the first circuit affirmed the district court's decision on september 7, 2005. discovery in this and the other affirmative cases is proceeding. mr. swartz was tried on criminal charges in new york county. the first criminal trial resulted in a mistrial declared on april 2, 2004. the retrial of mr. swartz began on january 18, 2005 and concluded on june 17, 2005, when the jury returned verdicts. of the thirty-one counts submitted to it, which were similar to certain of the claims alleged in the company's affirmative action described above, twenty-three were against mr. swartz. the jury found mr. swartz guilty on all charges of grand larceny, conspiracy and securities fraud, and all but one count of falsification of business records. on september 19, 2005, mr. swartz was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of eight and one-third years to twenty-five years, and ordered to pay an individual fine of $35 million and restitution, jointly and severally with mr. kozlowski, to tyco of $134 million within one year and mr. swartz was ordered individually to pay damages to tyco in the amount of $1 million. on september 19, 2005, mr. swartz filed a notice of appeal from his conviction and on october 3, 2006 filed a brief in support of his appeal. on october 27, 2006, mr. swartz paid restitution to the company in the amount of $38 million. the payment by mr. swartz was made pending the outcome of his appeal, which was denied on november 15, 2007. tyco international ltd. v. l. dennis kozlowski and mark h. swartz, united states district court southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-9705, filed december 6, 2002. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former chairman and chief executive officer and former chief financial officer and director pursuant to section 16(b) of the securities and exchange act of 1934 for disgorgement of short-swing profits from prohibited transactions in our common shares believed to exceed $40 million. the action seeks disgorgement of profits, interest, attorney's fees and costs. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation has transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. on october 6, 2003, messrs. kozlowski and swartz 36 moved to dismiss the claims against them based upon the statute of limitations. on march 16, 2004, the district court for the district of new hampshire granted the defendants' motion to dismiss in part with leave for tyco to file an amended complaint. tyco filed an amended complaint on may 14, 2004. the defendants moved to dismiss certain claims in the amended complaint on june 28, 2004. the defendants' motion to dismiss was denied on april 21, 2005. the defendants' motion to extend time to answer the complaint until thirty days after the conclusion of deliberations in the criminal trial was granted on may 17, 2005. both defendants filed their answers on july 18, 2005. discovery in this and the other affirmative cases is proceeding. tyco international ltd. v. frank e. walsh, jr., united states district court, southern district of new york, no. 02-cv-4633, filed june 17, 2002. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against frank e. walsh, jr., a former director, for breach of fiduciary duty and related wrongful conduct involving receipt by mr. walsh of a $20 million payment in connection with our 2001 acquisition of the cit group, inc. the action alleges causes of action for restitution, breach of fiduciary duty and inducing breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, unjust enrichment, and a constructive trust, and seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the defendant director's conduct. on december 17, 2002, mr. walsh paid $20 million in restitution to tyco, which was deposited by the company in january 2003, as a result of a plea bargain agreement with the new york county district attorney. our claims against mr. walsh are still pending. the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred this action to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. discovery in this and the other affirmative cases is proceeding. subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities as previously reported in our periodic filings, we and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec, the u.s. department of labor, state departments of labor, the general service administration and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. we are cooperating with these investigations and are complying with these requests. certain of our current and former employees received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices for the adt dealer connect fees. the investigation, which began in june 2002, related to accounting practices employed by our former management. as previously reported in our periodic filings, these practices have been discontinued. as previously reported in our periodic filings, in november 2004, we received an order from the sec to report facts and circumstances involving our participation, if any, in the united nations oil for food program governing sales of iraqi oil. on january 10, 2005 and november 8, 2005, we responded to the order and provided information concerning transactions under the united nations oil for food program. on january 31, 2006, we received a subpoena from the sec to produce additional documents and information related to the participation of three of our businesses in the united nations oil for food program. the sec notified us on june 7, 2006 that it was not recommending any enforcement action against tyco in connection with its investigation of the united nations oil for food program. recently, we have discovered additional product sales that may be responsive to the sec's order and have notified the sec staff that we intend to investigate these transactions. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of this matter, we do not believe this discovery will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the u.s. department of labor served document subpoenas on tyco and fidelity management trust company for documents concerning the administration of our retirement savings and investment plans. the current focus of the department's inquiry concerns the losses allegedly experienced by the plans due to investments in our stock. the department of labor has authority to bring suit on behalf of the plans and their participants against those acting as fiduciaries to the plans for recovery of losses and additional penalties, although it has not informed us of any intention to do so. the company is continuing to cooperate with the department's investigation. 37 as previously reported in our periodic filings, on january 27, 2006, we received from the new jersey division of criminal justice office of the attorney general a subpoena to produce documents concerning, among other things, former employees, the use of certain chemicals, and the filing of reports under state and federal environmental reporting laws at the same new jersey facility sold by tyco in 2000. the subpoena seeks information for the period from january 1987 to december 2000. we have provided information in response to the subpoena and discussed the matter with the agency. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of this matter and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution. tyco continues to cooperate fully with the investigators. environmental matters tyco is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. as of september 28, 2007, tyco concluded that it was probable that it would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $36 million to $63 million. as of september 28, 2007, tyco concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $40 million, of which $11 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $29 million is included in other liabilities on tyco's consolidated balance sheets. in view of the company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters, the company believes that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. asbestos matters as previously reported in its periodic filings, tyco and some of its subsidiaries and certain subsidiaries of covidien are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, covidien has assumed all liabilities for pending cases filed against its subsidiaries. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. the complaints generally seek monetary damages for personal injury or bodily injury resulting from alleged exposure to products containing asbestos. the company will continue to vigorously defend these lawsuits and the company has not suffered an adverse verdict in a trial court proceeding related to asbestos claims. when appropriate, the company settles claims. however, the total amount paid in any year to settle and defend all asbestos claims has been immaterial. as of september 28, 2007 there were approximately 5,600 asbestos liability cases pending against the company and its subsidiaries. income tax matters during the third quarter of 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2000 and issued anticipated revenue agents' reports ("rars") which reflect the irs' determination of proposed tax adjustments for the periods under audit. the rars propose tax audit adjustments to certain of the company's previously filed tax return positions, all of which the company expected and previously assessed at each balance sheet date. accordingly, the company has made no additional provision during the year ended september 28, 2007 as a result of the proposed audit adjustments in the rars. the company has agreed with the irs on adjustments totaling $498 million, with an estimated cash impact to the company of $458 million, and during the third quarter of 2007, the company paid $458 million, of which $163 million relates to the company's discontinued operations. the company appealed other proposed tax audit adjustments totaling approximately $1 billion, and, as audit managing party as specified in the tax sharing agreement, the company intends to vigorously defend 38 its prior filed tax return positions. the company continues to believe that the amounts recorded in its financial statements relating to these tax adjustments are sufficient. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in a material impact to the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, ultimate resolution of these matters could result in the company filing amended u.s. federal income tax returns for years subsequent to the current 1997 to 2000 audit period and could have a material impact on the company's effective tax rate in future reporting periods. additionally, the irs proposed civil fraud penalties against a prior subsidiary that was distributed to tyco electronics arising from alleged actions of former executives in connection with certain intercompany transfers of stock of simplex technologies in 1998 and 1999. based on statutory guidelines, we estimate the proposed penalties could range between $30 million and $50 million. the company as audit managing party will vigorously oppose the assertion of such penalties against tyco electronics, in part, because beginning in 2003 the company discovered, investigated and reported the conduct at issue to the irs and fully cooperated in the criminal prosecution of the company's former chief tax officer on a charge of willful filing of a false tax return. compliance matters as previously reported in our periodic filings, we have received and responded to various allegations and other information that certain improper payments were made by our subsidiaries in recent years. as previously reported, we have been informed that two subsidiaries in our flow control business in italy have been named in a request for criminal charges filed by the milan public prosecutor's office. we have reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations. we also informed the doj and the sec that we retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), that we would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies, and that we would present our factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. we have and will continue to communicate with the doj and sec to provide updates on the baseline review being conducted by outside counsel, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper payments identified by us in the course of our ongoing compliance activities. covidien and tyco electronics agreed, in connection with the separation, to cooperate with the company in its response to these allegations. to date, the baseline review has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters and other allegations reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of these matters. however, it is possible that we may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. any judgment required to be paid or settlement or other cost incurred by tyco in connection with these matters would be subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, which assigned liabilities primarily related to the former healthcare and electronics businesses of tyco to covidien or tyco electronics, respectively, and provides that tyco will retain liabilities primarily related to its continuing operations. any liabilities not primarily related to a particular segment will be shared equally among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics. the german federal cartel office ("fco") charged that certain german subsidiaries in tyco's flow control business have engaged in anti-competitive practices, in particular with regard to its hydrant, valve, street box and fittings business. tyco investigated this matter and determined that the conduct may have violated german anti-trust-law. tyco is cooperating with the fco in its investigation of this violation. tyco cannot estimate the range of potential loss that may result from this violation. it 39 is possible that the company may be subject to civil or criminal proceedings and may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. indenture trustee litigation on june 4, 2007, the bank of new york ("bony"), as indenture trustee under the indentures dated as of june 9, 1998 and november 12, 2003, of tyco international group s.a. ("tigsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of tyco, commenced an action against tigsa and tyco in the united states district court for the southern district of new york. bony served an amended complaint on october 18, 2007, which added tyco international finance s.a. ("tifsa") as an additional defendant. as amended, the complaint alleges that the separation breached the indentures and seeks damages on behalf of noteholders in excess of $4.1 billion, consisting of principal plus accrued interest on the notes issued under the indentures, plus a "make-whole" amount payable under the indentures in the event of early redemption of the notes. the amended complaint also seeks a judgment declaring that bony was not required to sign supplemental indentures proposed by tigsa, tifsa and tyco in connection with the separation. bony also seeks a declaratory judgment that tigsa is obligated to pay bony reasonable compensation and to reimburse bony for all reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the separation and in resolving the proper interpretation of the indentures. on november 15, 2007, tyco and tifsa filed counterclaims against bony, alleging that its refusal to sign the supplemental indentures in connection with the separation and the filing of the amended complaint constituted a breach of the indentures and a breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing implied in the indentures. they seek unspecified damages on these claims. tyco and tifsa also seek a declaratory judgment that no default has occurred and that bony is required to sign the supplemental indentures. on november 8, 2007, bony delivered to the company a notice of events of default, claiming that the actions taken by the company in connection with the separation constitute events of default under the indentures. the claims made in the notice of events of default are the same as those alleged by bony in the litigation, and the company continues to believe that no default or event of default has occurred. the indentures provide for a 90-day cure period following delivery of the notice of default, after which bony could declare any outstanding amounts under the indentures immediately due and payable. we would contest such an acceleration. tigsa, tifsa and tyco continue to believe that the separation and the proposed supplemental indentures are permitted under the indentures and that no "make-whole" amount is payable. the company intends to vigorously defend the claims of default and believes it will prevail in legal proceedings. if we did not have liquidity available to repay the outstanding debt under the 1998 and 2003 indentures under our 364-day bridge facility, such an acceleration of the outstanding notes would have permitted a majority of the lenders under each of our bank and letter of credit facilities to demand repayment of amounts outstanding under those facilities, and to terminate their commitments to extend additional credit thereunder. as a result, on november 27, 2007, the company secured additional firm commitments from certain of its lenders under the bridge facility, providing the company with additional borrowings of up to $4.0 billion to repay such notes. the additional commitments expire on, and any borrowings under the facility would mature on, november 25, 2008. the facility may only be used to repay, settle or otherwise extinguish the amounts required to be paid in connection with the litigation with bony. 40 other matters earth tech v. city of phoenix is a contract dispute arising from earth tech's contract with the city of phoenix, arizona for expansion of the city's 91 st avenue waste water treatment plant. on december 21, 2005, earth tech filed a lawsuit against the city of phoenix in the maricopa county superior court alleging $3 million in damages plus interest for the city's failure to pay dewatering and computer systems costs related to the 91 st avenue project. after the city rejected earth tech's administrative claim against the city, earth tech filed and served a first amended complaint upon the city of phoenix. in its first amended complaint, earth tech alleged eighteen causes of action and requested the following: (i) a recovery of at least $73 million for the value of the services performed by earth tech in connection with the contract; (ii) a rescission of the contract; (iii) an equitable adjustment of the contract price for additional dewatering services and the computer control system; and (iv) costs for demobilization and termination of the contract. the city of phoenix filed a motion to dismiss rather than filing an answer to the first amended complaint on may 18, 2006. the court granted the city's motion to dismiss without prejudice on september 19, 2006 allowing earth tech 30 days to file a second amended complaint. earth tech filed its second amended compliant against the city of phoenix on september 25, 2006. in connection with this matter, the company has assets, which it has assessed as recoverable, of $50 million at september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006. on december 29, 2005, the city of phoenix filed a lawsuit against earth tech, inc., its surety, federal insurance company and other unnamed parties in the maricopa county superior court, the city of phoenix v. earth tech, inc., federal insurance company and john does 1-50. the lawsuit is in connection with the city of phoenix's termination on august 12, 2005 of earth tech's contract with the city of phoenix, arizona for expansion of the city's 91 st avenue waste water treatment plant. the city alleges the following causes of action: (i) earth tech breached its pre-construction services and construction management at risk contracts; (ii) earth tech did not properly, reasonably or timely manage, supervise or inspect the work under the contracts; (iii) federal insurance breached the terms and conditions of the performance bond; and (iv) federal insurance failed to investigate the city's bond claims. the city requested unspecified general, consequential, incidental, special and liquidated damages plus interest as its relief. on february 8, 2006, earth tech filed a motion to dismiss the city's complaint in which federal insurance company joined. the court denied earth tech's motion to dismiss on september 25, 2006. the city of phoenix filed an amended complaint against earth tech and federal insurance on september 25, 2006. in the amended complaint, the city of phoenix alleged damages of $128 million. the presiding judge of maricopa county superior court on july 11, 2006 consolidated all of the pending lawsuits related to this dispute on the court's complex litigation docket. on june 6, 2007, the court granted earth tech's motion for partial summary judgment, ordering that application of arizona's prompt payment act was appropriate and that any material inconsistencies in the contract be resolved in favor of the act's requirements. on october 19, 2007, earth tech filed a second motion related to the prompt payment act, arguing that the city of phoenix breached its contract with earth tech by failing to make payment on a payment application that was deemed certified and approved under the proper payment act. the court is likely to rule on the motion sometime in the spring of 2008. tyco cannot predict the outcome of this matter and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of this matter. fitzpatrick contractors limited v. tyco fire and integrated solutions (uk) ltd. on july 18, 2007, fitzpatrick contractors limited ("fcl") commenced an action against tyco fire and integrated solutions (uk) ltd. in the high court of justice, queen bench division, technology and construction court, united kingdom, alleging that tyco entered into a binding contract in 2002 for the design, manufacture and installation of mechanical and electrical works for the refurbishment of a portion of london transport's blackwell tunnel. fcl seeks a declaratory judgment that a contract was formed between the parties and seeks damages for breach of contract in the amount of approximately $38 41 million. tyco believes it has valid counterclaims for unpaid amounts owed to it by fcl for design work, purchased equipment and subcontracted construction work associated with the project, but denies that it entered a binding contract with fcl for the project and intends to defend this action vigorously. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of this dispute, tyco does not believe this action will have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. sensormatic security corp. v. sensormatic electronics corp., adt security services, inc. and wallace computer services, inc. in april 2002, litigation was commenced in the united states district court for the district of maryland by a sensormatic franchisee, sensormatic security corp. ("ssc"), alleging breach of contract against sensormatic and tortuous interference with contract against adt and wallace computer services, inc., a party unrelated to tyco. the litigation was based on allegedly unpaid commissions under a franchise agreement. the lawsuit also alleges that sensormatic improperly authorized third parties (including adt and wallace) to sell in ssc's exclusive territory of maryland, virginia and the district of columbia. sensormatic has agreed to indemnify wallace. ssc seeks an accounting, monetary damages (including punitive damages against adt and wallace), and injunctive relief. sensormatic and adt have denied ssc's allegations and asserted affirmative defenses. sensormatic also filed a counterclaim seeking recovery of overpayments made to ssc. on september 7, 2006, the trial court denied in part and granted in part the parties' cross motions for summary judgment. among other things, the court ruled that ssc has the right to commissions on all sensormatic cctv products (not just sensorvision systems) if sold for automatic theft detection in the franchise territory and ssc has the right to commissions on cctv indirect sales if sold for automatic theft detection in the franchise territory. sensormatic and adt intend to appeal those rulings. sensormatic and adt will continue to vigorously defend the litigation. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of this dispute, tyco does not believe this action will have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders none. 42 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the number of registered holders of tyco's common shares at november 15, 2007 was 26,295. tyco common shares are listed and traded on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") and the bermuda stock exchange under the symbol "tyc." the following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of tyco common shares as reported by the nyse, and the dividends paid on tyco common shares, for the quarterly periods presented below. in connection with the separation, effective june 29, 2007, the company, as approved by its board of directors, effected a reverse stock split of tyco's common shares, at a split ratio of one for four. shareholder approval for the reverse stock split was obtained at the march 8, 2007 special general meeting of shareholders. market price range was adjusted for the separation. dividends per common share reflect the reverse stock split only. year ended september 28, 2007 year ended september 29, 2006 market price range market price range quarter dividend per common share dividend per common share high low high low first $ 48.69 $ 43.81 $ 0.40 $ 46.40 $ 40.33 $ 0.40 second 52.09 46.57 0.40 48.69 38.90 0.40 third 53.83 49.88 0.80 44.70 40.44 0.40 fourth 53.36 40.59 43.90 39.57 0.40 $ 1.60 $ 1.60 dividend policy on september 13, 2007 tyco's board of directors approved a quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of $0.15 per share payable on november 1, 2007 to shareholders of record of tyco international ltd. post separation on october 1, 2007. the dividend per common share in the above table represents that of tyco pre-separation, which included covidien and tyco electronics. following the separation, covidien and tyco electronics declared quarterly dividends as independent public companies. the timing, declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common shares, however, falls within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the statutory requirements of bermuda law, our financial condition and results of operations, the capital requirements of our businesses, industry practice and any other factors the board of directors deems relevant. additionally, we may from time to time enter into financing agreements that contain financial covenants and restrictions, some of which may limit the ability of tyco to pay dividends. 43 performance graph set forth below is a graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on tyco's common shares against the cumulative return on the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial diversified index, assuming investment of $100 on september 30, 2002, including the reinvestment of dividends. the graph shows the cumulative total return as of the fiscal years ended september 30, 2003, 2004, 2005, september 29, 2006 and september 28, 2007. 9/02 9/03 9/04 9/05 9/06 9/07 tyco international ltd. $ 100.00 $ 145.33 $ 218.47 $ 200.98 $ 204.18 $ 209.64 s&amp;p 500 100.00 124.40 141.65 159.01 176.17 205.13 dow jones industrial diversified 100.00 126.24 155.58 159.29 170.66 211.64 44 equity compensation plan information the following table provides information as of september 28, 2007 with respect to tyco's common shares issuable under its equity compensation plans: plan category number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (a) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (b) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) equity compensation plans approved by security holders: 2004 stock and incentive plan (1) 19,943,812 $ 50.62 30,812,860 ltip i plan (2) 5,232,975 $ 40.69 espp (3) 3,088,945 25,176,787 33,901,805 equity compensation plans not approved by security holders: ltip ii plan (4) 8,175,175 $ 53.49 saye (5) 734,860 $ 23.30 7,064,900 8,910,035 7,064,900 total 34,086,822 40,966,705 (1) the tyco international ltd. 2004 stock and incentive plan (the "2004 plan") provides for the award of stock options, restricted shares and other equity or equity-based awards to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amount shown under shares outstanding includes 114,299 deferred stock unit ("dsu") grants and dividend equivalents earned on each dsu account, 14,783,049 shares to be issued upon exercise of options, 964,523 restricted shares, 3,550,631 restricted stock units and 531,310 performance share units ("psus") representing target payout. amount shown under shares available reflects the aggregate shares available under the ltip i, ltip ii and 2004 plans. shares available under the ltip i and ltip ii plans in march 2004 were rolled into the 2004 plan as of the inception of the plan. (2) the tyco international ltd. long term incentive plan (the "ltip i plan") provides for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amounts shown exclude 567,486 outstanding stock options assumed in connection with acquisitions at a weighted-average exercise price of $64.61. no additional options may be granted under those assumed plans. amount shown includes 4,318,622 shares to be issued upon exercise of options, 914,353 dsu grants, and dividend equivalents earned on each dsu account. the shares will be issued upon exercise. under the terms of the 2004 plan, adopted in march, 2004, no additional options, equity or equity-based grants will be made under the ltip i plan. the shares granted under the ltip i plan will be issued upon exercise under the 2004 plan. (3) this table includes 3,088,945 shares available for future issuance under the tyco employee stock purchase plan (the "espp"), which represents the number of remaining shares registered for issuance under this plan. all of the shares delivered to participants under the espp are purchased in the open market. during 2007, the espp was suspended in connection with the separation. we expect to reinstate the espp during 2008. (4) the tyco international ltd. long term incentive plan ii (the "ltip ii plan") provides for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to employees who are not officers of tyco. under this plan, non-officer employees or former employees of tyco or a subsidiary could receive: (i) options to purchase tyco common shares; (ii) stock appreciation rights; (iii) awards payable in cash, common shares, other securities or other property, based on the achievement of performance goals; (iv) dividend equivalents, consisting of a right to receive payments equivalent to dividends declared on tyco common shares; and (v) other stock-based awards as determined by the compensation and human resources committee. the exercise price of options and stock appreciation rights would generally be fair market value on the date of grant, but could be lower in certain circumstances. no individual could receive awards for more than 12,000,000 shares (or 3,000,000 shares on a post reverse stock split basis) in any calendar year. terms and conditions of awards were determined by the committee. awards could be deferred, and could be payable in any form the committee determined, including cash, tyco common shares, other securities or other property. the committee may modify awards in recognition of unusual or 45 nonrecurring events, including a change of control. under the terms of the 2004 plan, adopted in march 2004, no additional options, equity or equity-based grants will be made under the ltip ii plan. the shares granted under the ltip ii plan will be issued at vesting under the 2004 plan. (5) the tyco international ltd. uk savings related share option plan (the "saye plan") is a uk inland revenue approved plan for uk employees pursuant to which employees may be granted options to purchase shares at the end of three years of service at a 15% discount off the market price at time of grant. employees make monthly contributions that are, at the election of the employee, used for the purchase price or returned to the employee. the total amount of shares that may be purchased at the end of the three years of service is equal to the total of the monthly contributions, plus a tax-free bonus amount equal to a multiple of the aggregate amount of monthly contributions, divided by the option price. an option will generally be exercisable only during the period of six months following the three-year period. the plan is administered by the company's senior vice president of human resources, as delegated by the compensation and human resources committee. the senior vice president of human resources, among other things, determines when to grant options and sets the option price in accordance with the saye plan's rules. issuer purchases of equity securities period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under publicly announced plans or programs 6/30/07 7/27/07 35,111 $ 52.97 7/28/07 8/31/07 9,530 $ 52.36 9/1/07 9/28/07 1,273,797 $ 44.50 1,267,500 the transactions described in the table above primarily represent the repurchase of common shares on the nyse as part of the $1.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in september 2007. the average price paid per share is calculated by dividing the total cash paid for the shares by the total number of shares repurchased. approximately $944 million remained outstanding under this share repurchase program at september 28, 2007. the company, through an affiliate, also acquires shares from certain employees in order to satisfy employee tax withholding requirements in connection with the vesting of restricted shares. approximately 51,000 shares were acquired in these vesting-related transactions outside of the share repurchase program during the quarter ended september 28, 2007. 46 item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of tyco. this data is derived from tyco's consolidated financial statements for the five years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. in connection with the separation, effective june 29, 2007, the company, as approved by its board of directors, effected a reverse stock split of tyco's common shares, at a split ratio of one for four. share and per share data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split. this selected financial data should be read in conjunction with tyco's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of this annual report titled item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 2007 (1) 2006 (2) 2005 (3) 2004 (4) 2003 (5)(6) (in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of operations data: net revenue $ 18,781 $ 17,336 $ 16,665 $ 16,029 $ 14,726 (loss) income from continuing operations (2,519 ) 823 581 345 (439 ) net (loss) income (1,742 ) 3,590 3,094 2,822 966 basic earnings per share: (loss) income from continuing operations (5.09 ) 1.64 1.15 0.69 (0.88 ) net (loss) income (3.52 ) 7.14 6.15 5.64 1.94 diluted earnings per share: (loss) income from continuing operations (5.09 ) 1.60 1.13 0.68 (0.88 ) net (loss) income (3.52 ) 6.95 5.85 5.60 1.94 cash dividends per share (7) 1.60 1.60 1.25 0.20 0.20 consolidated balance sheets data (end of period) (8) : total assets $ 32,815 $ 63,011 $ 62,465 $ 63,718 $ 63,174 long-term debt 4,076 8,853 10,072 13,917 16,992 shareholders' equity 15,624 35,387 32,619 30,399 26,451 (1) loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 28, 2007 includes a class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion, $105 million of separation costs, a $46 million goodwill impairment charge related to the reorganization to a new management and segment reporting structure, net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $217 million, a net loss on divestitures of $4 million, $120 million of incremental stock option charges required under statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," a $259 million loss related to the early retirement of debt and $95 million of tax charges related to the separation primarily for the write-off of deferred tax assets that will no longer be realizable. net loss also includes $777 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (2) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 29, 2006 includes a charge of $100 million related to the voluntary replacement program, which is included in cost of sales. also included are $49 million of separation costs, a net loss on divestitures of $2 million, net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $13 million, $84 million of incremental stock option charges required under sfas no. 123r, $72 million of income related to a settlement with a former executive and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. net income includes $2,781 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $14 million loss, net of income taxes, related to the cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the adoption of financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143 " (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). (3) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2005 includes a net loss on divestitures of $23 million, net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $18 million, a $70 million charge related to certain former executives' employment, a $50 million charge related to an sec enforcement action, a loss of $405 million related to the retirement of debt as well as $109 million of income related to a court-ordered restitution award. net income also includes $2,492 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $21 million gain, net of income taxes, related to a cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the change in measurement date for pension and postretirement benefit plans (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). 47 (4) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2004 includes a charge of $59 million related to divestitures, net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $272 million, and a loss of $113 million related to the retirement of debt. net income also includes a $2,477 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (5) in 2003, tyco consolidated variable interest entities in accordance with the transition provisions of fin no. 46, " consolidation of variable interest entities ." as a result, tyco recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $75 million, net of income taxes. (6) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2003 includes net restructuring charges of $6 million, charges for the impairment of long-lived assets of $160 million, additional changes in estimates of $331 million which arose from the company's intensified internal audits and detailed controls and operating reviews, a charge of $91 million for a retroactive incremental premium on prior period directors and officers insurance and a loss related to the retirement of debt of $51 million. net income also includes $1,480 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (7) on september 13, 2007 tyco's board of directors approved a quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of $0.15 per share payable on november 1, 2007 to shareholders of record of tyco international ltd. post separation on october 1, 2007. on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares from $0.05 to $0.40 per share. as a result, in 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per common share in the first quarter of 2005 and $0.40 per common share thereafter. prior to 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per common share for all periods presented. (8) the decrease in total assets, long-term debt and shareholders' equity in 2007 is primarily related to the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics. 48 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the selected financial data and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the headings "risk factors" and "forward-looking information." introduction the consolidated financial statements include the consolidated results of tyco international ltd., a company organized under the laws of bermuda, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as "we," the "company" or "tyco") and have been prepared in united states dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). in connection with the separation, tyco healthcare changed its name to covidien ltd. ("covidien"). as covidien and tyco electronics historically accounted for 55% of our revenues, we have realigned our management and segment reporting structure and report financial and operating information in the following five segments, effective march 31, 2007: adt worldwide designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security systems to residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. fire protection services designs, sells, installs and services fire detection and fire suppression systems to commercial, industrial and governmental customers. flow control designs, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes, fittings, valve automation and heat tracing products for the water and wastewater markets, the oil, gas and other energy markets along with general process industries. safety products designs, manufactures and sells fire protection, security and life safety products, including fire suppression products, breathing apparatus, intrusion security, access control and video management systems. in addition, safety products manufactures products installed and serviced by adt worldwide and fire protection services. electrical and metal products designs, manufactures and sells steel tubing and pipe products, as well as cable products, including pre-wired armored cable and flexible conduit products for commercial construction. we also provide general corporate services to our segments and these costs are reported as corporate and other. during the fourth quarter of 2007, infrastructure services, previously reported as part of corporate and other, met the held for sale criteria and has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. references to the segment data are to the company's continuing operations. prior period amounts have been reclassified to exclude the results of discontinued operations. overview effective june 29, 2007, tyco completed the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics, formerly healthcare and electronics businesses, respectively, into separate, publicly traded companies (the "separation") in the form of a distribution to tyco shareholders. the distribution was made on june 29, 2007, to tyco shareholders of record on june 18, 2007, the record date. each tyco shareholder received 0.25 of a common share of each of covidien and tyco electronics for each tyco common 49 share held on the record date. tyco shareholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares for amounts of less than one covidien or tyco electronics common share. the distribution was structured to be tax-free to tyco shareholders except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. as a result of the distribution, the operations of tyco's former healthcare and electronics businesses are now classified as discontinued operations in all periods presented. additionally, on the distribution date, the company, as approved by its board of directors, effected a reverse stock split of tyco's common shares, at a split ratio of one for four. shareholder approval for the reverse stock split was obtained at the march 8, 2007 special general meeting of shareholders. share and per share data for all periods presented have been adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split. we have and will continue to incur separation costs related to debt refinancing, tax restructuring, professional services and employee-related costs. we currently estimate that the total income statement charges will be approximately $1.4 billion, after-tax, much of which will be reflected as discontinued operations. during 2007 and 2006, the company incurred pre-tax costs related to the separation, including the $647 million loss on early extinguishment of debt in 2007, of $1,083 million and $169 million, respectively. of this amount, $105 million and $49 million is included in separation costs, $259 million and $0 million related to loss on early extinguishment of debt is included in other expense, net and $719 million and $120 million is included in discontinued operations, respectively. most of the remaining charges are expected to be incurred during the first six months of fiscal 2008. additionally, 2007 includes tax charges related to the separation primarily for the write-off of deferred tax assets that will no longer be realizable of $183 million, of which $95 million is included in income taxes and $88 million is included in discontinued operations. on april 27, 2007, in connection with the separation, tyco and certain of its subsidiaries that are issuers of its corporate debt commenced tender offers to purchase for cash substantially all of its outstanding u.s. dollar denominated public debt. additionally, on april 30, 2007, tyco international group s.a., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company ("tigsa"), commenced tender offers to purchase for cash all of its outstanding euro and pound sterling denominated public debt. in connection with the debt tender offers, tyco incurred a pre-tax charge for the early extinguishment of debt of approximately $647 million, for which no tax benefit is available. in connection with the separation, during the third quarter of 2007 we reorganized to a new management and segment reporting structure. as part of these organizational changes, we assessed new reporting units, assigned goodwill to the new reporting units and tested goodwill for impairment. as a result, we recognized a goodwill impairment of $46 million in 2007 in the adt worldwide segment. we remain committed to returning excess cash to shareholders. in september 2007, tyco's board of directors approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program under which, we repurchased 1.3 million of our common shares for $56 million. during 2007 we also completed the $2.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in may 2006. additionally, during 2006 we completed the $1.5 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in july of 2005. during 2007, we paid dividends of $791 million to shareholders. on september 13, 2007 tyco's board of directors approved a quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of $0.15 per share payable on november 1, 2007 to shareholders of record of tyco international ltd. post separation on october 1, 2007. during 2007, we sold aquas industriales de jose, c.a. ("aij"), a joint venture that was majority owned by infrastructure services, for $42 million in net cash proceeds and a pre-tax gain of $19 million was recorded. aij met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. 50 we are continuing to assess the strategic fit of our various businesses and are considering additional divestitures where businesses do not align with our long term vision. tyco will explore a number of strategic alternatives for under-performing or non-strategic businesses including possible divestiture. in july 2007, the board of directors approved for divestiture infrastructure services which was previously reported as part of corporate and other. infrastructure services had total net revenue of $1.3 billion and operating income of $53 million in 2007. infrastructure services met the held for sale criteria in the fourth quarter of 2007 and has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. to further improve operating efficiency, during the first quarter of 2007, we launched a restructuring program across all segments, including the corporate organization, which will streamline some of the businesses and reduce the operational footprint. we expect to incur charges related to the program of approximately $350 million to $400 million through the end of 2008. during 2007, we incurred charges of $204 million, of which $7 million was recorded in cost of sales, and utilized cash of $70 million related to this program. we believe this restructuring program will strengthen our competitive position over the long term. class action settlement on may 14, 2007, tyco entered into a memorandum of understanding with plaintiffs' counsel in connection with the settlement of 32 purported securities class action lawsuits. under the terms of the memorandum of understanding, the plaintiffs agreed to release all claims against tyco, the other settling defendants and ten other individuals in consideration for the payment of $2.975 billion from tyco to the certified class. the parties to the memorandum of understanding have applied to the court for approval of the settlement agreement. on july 13, 2007, the u. s. district court in concord, new hampshire granted preliminary approval of the settlement. on november 2, 2007, the final fairness hearing for the class settlement was held. the court indicated it would approve the settlement and stated a formal ruling would be issued in a few weeks. if the settlement agreement does not receive final court approval, the memorandum of understanding will be null and void. by december 28, 2007, class participants must file their proofs of claim demonstrating their right to recovery under the class settlement. the deadline for deciding not to participate in the class settlement was september 28, 2007. as of such date, tyco had received opt-out notices from individuals and entities totaling approximately 4% of the shares owned by class members. these individuals and entities may pursue their claims separately against tyco and any judgments resulting from such claims would not reduce the settlement amount. one entity, franklin mutual advisers, llc, has filed a complaint against tyco on september 24, 2007 in an action styled franklin mutual advisers, llc v. tyco international ltd. in the united states district court for the district of new jersey alleging violations of section 11 of the securities act of 1933, 15 u.s.c. sec. 77(b), section 10(b) of the securities and exchange act of 1934, 15 u.s.c. sec. 78(b), and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder and section 18 of the securities and exchange act of 1934, 15 u.s.c. sec. 78(k) in connection with the plaintiffs' purchases and sales of tyco securities between june 4, 2001 and april 30, 2002. the plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages and reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. tyco has requested that this action be transferred to the united states district court for the district of new hampshire. tyco intends to vigorously defend the litigation. it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome or to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of the franklin matter or other unasserted claims from individuals that have opted-out. 51 under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement entered into in connection with the separation, each of tyco, covidien and tyco electronics are jointly and severally liable for the full amount of the class action settlement and any judgments resulting from opt-out claims. additionally, under the separation and distribution agreement, the companies share in the liability and related escrow accounts, with tyco assuming 27%, covidien 42% and tyco electronics 31% of the settlement amount. tyco incurred a charge to expense, for which no tax benefit is available, and a current liability of $2.975 billion in 2007. the company has also recovered or expects to recover certain of these costs from insurers. as such, the company recorded $113 million of recoveries in connection with the class action settlement in its consolidated statements of operations. tyco borrowed under its unsecured bridge and credit facilities to fund the liability and placed the proceeds in escrow for the benefit of the class. in connection with the separation, covidien and tyco electronics assumed their portion of the related borrowing. the escrow accounts will earn interest that is payable to the class. interest is also accrued on the class action settlement liability. based on the separation and distribution agreement, at september 28, 2007 tyco had a receivable from covidien and tyco electronics for their portion of the liability of $1,257 million and $927 million, respectively, and a payable to covidien and tyco electronics for their interest in the escrow accounts. receivables and payables that pertain to the class action settlement and related escrow accounts with the same counterparty are presented net in the consolidated balance sheet. tyco's portion of the liability is $808 million. additionally, tyco has paid $73 million and recorded payables of $9 million at september 28, 2007, with an offset to shareholders' equity for amounts due to covidien and tyco electronics for their portion of the insurance recovery. operating results net revenue and net income for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 revenue from product sales $ 12,095 $ 10,974 $ 10,342 service revenue 6,686 6,362 6,323 net revenue $ 18,781 $ 17,336 $ 16,665 operating (loss) income $ (1,715 ) $ 1,370 $ 1,191 interest income 102 43 39 interest expense (313 ) (279 ) (322 ) other expense, net (255 ) (296 ) (loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest (2,181 ) 1,134 612 income taxes (334 ) (310 ) (29 ) minority interest (4 ) (1 ) (2 ) (loss) income from continuing operations (2,519 ) 823 581 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 777 2,781 2,492 (loss) income before cumulative effect of accounting change (1,742 ) 3,604 3,073 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (14 ) 21 net (loss) income $ (1,742 ) $ 3,590 $ 3,094 net revenue increased $1.4 billion, or 8.3%, for 2007 as compared to 2006 as a result of growth in all of our segments. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by flow control as a result of volume growth from continued strength in most industrial end markets. in addition, adt worldwide had strong growth in asia and latin america, as well as growth in its recurring revenue base and 52 contracting revenue in north america. fire protection services experienced continued growth in electronic and mechanical contracting. foreign currency exchange rates positively affected 2007 by $586 million while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures negatively affected 2007 by $48 million. operating income decreased $3.1 billion for 2007. operating income was primarily impacted by the class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion. revenue growth in all segments was partially offset by lower margins in electrical and metal products primarily due to unfavorable spreads on both steel and copper products. additionally, operating income was impacted by costs incurred relating to the separation and the restructuring program announced in november 2006. separation related costs impacted operating income by $105 million for 2007 and $49 million for 2006. restructuring and asset impairment charges, net impacted operating income by $217 million for 2007. also impacting operating income was a goodwill impairment charge of $46 million due to the reorganization into our new management and segment reporting structure. divestiture charges impacted 2007 by $4 million. restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net were $15 million for 2006. net revenue increased $671 million, or 4.0%, for 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of growth in four of our segments. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by flow control as a result of volume growth from strength in most industrial end markets. in addition, revenue growth was favorably impacted by increased selling prices of armored cable products due to higher costs of copper within electrical and metal products during 2006. foreign currency exchange rates negatively affected 2006 by $85 million while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures negatively affected the period by $118 million. operating income increased $179 million, or 15.0%, for 2006 while operating margin increased 0.8 percentage points to 7.9%. the increase in operating income was driven by growth in three of our segments as well as reduced operating expenses in corporate, partially offset by lower margins in adt worldwide and safety products. operating income for 2006 was unfavorably affected by a $100 million charge relating to a pre-existing voluntary replacement program for certain sprinkler heads, incremental stock option charges of $84 million as required under sfas no. 123r, " share-based payments ," separation related costs of $49 million and net restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $15 million. operating income for 2006 also included $72 million of income related to the extinguishment of certain payment obligations under a split dollar life insurance policy and rabbi trust pursuant to a settlement with mr. kozlowski, former chief executive officer, and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. operating income during 2005 was negatively affected by net restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $40 million. in addition, 2005 was unfavorably affected by a charge of $50 million related to an sec enforcement action and a $70 million charge for estimated contingencies related to contested legal proceedings seeking to enforce retention agreements for five former executives. 53 results by geographic area net revenue by geographic area for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 was as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 net revenue (1) : united states $ 8,884 $ 8,613 $ 8,161 other americas 1,445 1,358 1,255 europe, middle east and africa ("emea") 5,462 4,825 4,876 asia-pacific 2,990 2,540 2,373 $ 18,781 $ 17,336 $ 16,665 (1) revenue is attributed to individual countries based on the reporting entity that records the transaction. segment results the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each of our realigned segments included in continuing operations. adt worldwide net revenue, operating income and operating margin for adt worldwide for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 revenue from product sales $ 2,734 $ 2,546 $ 2,471 service revenue 4,914 4,659 4,633 net revenue $ 7,648 $ 7,205 $ 7,104 operating income $ 842 $ 907 $ 952 operating margin 11.0 % 12.6 % 13.4 % net revenue by geographic area for adt worldwide for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 was as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 north america $ 4,093 $ 3,980 $ 3,930 europe, middle east and africa 2,574 2,368 2,399 rest of world 981 857 775 $ 7,648 $ 7,205 $ 7,104 net revenue for adt worldwide increased 6.1% during 2007, with product revenue up 7.4% and service revenue up 5.5%, as compared to 2006. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of electronic security and other systems. service revenue is comprised of electronic security services and maintenance, including the monitoring of burglar alarms, fire alarms and other life safety systems as well as services related to retailer anti-theft systems. the 2.8% revenue growth in north america resulted largely from an increase in commercial installations, primarily in the retailer market, as well as an increase in the recurring revenue base. revenue in the emea region grew 8.7%, primarily driven by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the 14.5% revenue growth in the rest of world geographies was primarily driven by strong growth in asia and latin america and, to a lesser extent, favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. overall, net revenue was 54 favorably affected by $213 million due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures unfavorably impacted net revenue by $3 million. north america is the most profitable geographic area for adt worldwide with 2007 and 2006 operating margin of 17.1% and 16.6%, respectively. adt emea, while profitable with 2007 and 2006 operating margin of 3.1% and 6.3%, respectively, has strong future prospects but is not performing to the level we believe is attainable. as part of our long term program to improve profitability in adt emea, several specific actions have been started, including the appointment of new general management and initiation of an estimated $90 million restructuring program to improve field efficiency, operations and consolidate certain administrative functions. we incurred charges of $69 million related to this restructuring program in 2007 which negatively impacted operating margins. attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business continued to improve, declining to an average of 12.3% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2007, as compared to 14.2% for 2006 and 15.0% in 2005. as a result of our ongoing review of attrition rates and other pertinent factors affecting the related patterns in which revenues are expected to be earned, management reassessed amortization and depreciation methods and lives for its company-owned security systems and dealer intangible assets and made adjustments in 2007 (see note 1). operating income of $842 million in 2007 decreased $65 million from $907 million in 2006. factors that positively impacted operating income included increased volume, operational efficiencies and reductions to depreciation and amortization expense, of $26 million. the decrease to depreciation and amortization expense resulted from changes to the depreciation method and estimated useful lives for pooled subscriber assets and changes to the estimated useful lives of dealer intangible assets. these increases were more than offset by a goodwill impairment charge of $46 million, due to the reorganization of our management and segment reporting structure, as well as increased investment in selling and marketing in americas and asia. in addition, results for 2007 included net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $83 million, which were primarily related to actions to improve field efficiencies and consolidating certain administrative functions in europe, and an impairment of certain indefinite lived intangible assets. net restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges were $5 million in 2006. during the fourth quarter of 2007, adt worldwide began converting certain north american customers to digital backup services in advance of the february 2008 analog-to-digital signal transition for wireless cellular carriers. given the company's experience with this conversion in the fourth quarter, we estimate that the cost of the conversion will negatively impact operating income by approximate $40 million to $50 million in the first half of 2008. net revenue for adt worldwide increased 1.4% during 2006, with product revenue up 3.0% compared to 2005. revenue grew 10.6% in the rest of world geographies, driven primarily by strong growth in asia and latin america. revenue in north america was up slightly, while revenue in the emea region declined due to the continued high attrition of the legacy account base in continental europe. net revenue was unfavorably affected by $35 million due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures unfavorably impacted net revenue by $19 million. operating income decreased $45 million in 2006 from 2005. results for 2006 included net restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $5 million as compared to net restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $13 million in 2005. operating income for 2006 was negatively affected by slightly lower gross margin, due largely to margin pressures in commercial contracting coupled with a slightly higher mix of lower-margin contracting revenue. these effects were partially offset by cost savings related to operational excellence initiatives. in addition, 2006 was unfavorably affected by incremental stock option charges of $14 million required under sfas no. 123r. 55 fire protection services net revenue, operating income and operating margin for fire protection services for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 revenue from product sales $ 1,901 $ 1,729 $ 1,626 service revenue 1,605 1,552 1,556 net revenue $ 3,506 $ 3,281 $ 3,182 operating income $ 253 $ 239 $ 202 operating margin 7.2 % 7.3 % 6.3 % net revenue for fire protection services increased $225 million, or 6.9%, during 2007 as compared to 2006, driven largely by a 9.9% increase in revenue from product sales. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of fire protection and other systems. service revenue comprises inspection, maintenance, service and monitoring of fire detection and suppression systems. this increase was largely the result of strong growth in most regions which benefited from continuing strength in commercial construction activity in our focused end-markets. changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of $99 million while divestitures had a negative impact of $30 million. operating income increased $14 million during 2007 as compared to 2006 resulting largely from increased volume, and improved margins, primarily in north america. results for 2007 included net restructuring charges of $33 million, of which $1 million is included in cost of sales, primarily related to actions to improve field efficiencies and consolidate certain administrative functions in europe, compared to no charges 2006. net revenue for fire protection services increased $99 million, or 3.1%, during 2006 as compared to 2005, driven largely by a 6.3% increase in revenue from product sales. most of the revenue increase occurred in north america, which experienced strong bookings and increasing backlog throughout most of the past two years. revenue was unfavorably affected by $39 million related to divestitures and $22 million due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. operating income increased $37 million in 2006 over 2005. higher revenue, slightly improved gross margin and continued control of general and administrative expenses contributed to the improved operating results. operating income for 2006 was also favorably affected by cost savings related to operational excellence initiatives and prior year restructuring programs. in addition, 2006 was unfavorably affected by incremental stock option charges of $8 million required under sfas no. 123r. flow control net revenue, operating income and operating margin for flow control for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 revenue from product sales $ 3,618 $ 3,002 $ 2,690 service revenue 148 133 116 net revenue $ 3,766 $ 3,135 $ 2,806 operating income $ 457 $ 356 $ 336 operating margin 12.1 % 11.4 % 12.0 % net revenue for flow control increased $631 million, or 20.1%, in 2007 as compared 2006. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by volume growth from continued strength in most industrial 56 end markets with significant project growth in the energy and water sectors. growth in these sectors was strong across all geographical regions, and, in particular, asia-pacific and europe. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted revenue by $197 million while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures unfavorably impacted net revenue by $16 million. the increase in operating income of $101 million, or 28.4%, in 2007 as compared 2006 was primarily due to revenue growth, as well as improved utilization rates. the increase in operating income during 2007 was partially offset by net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $25 million, which includes $6 million in cost of sales, $3 million of divestiture charges, and $1 million of separation costs. net revenue for flow control increased $329 million, or 11.7%, in 2006 as compared to 2005. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by volume growth from strength in most industrial end markets with substantial project growth in the energy, process and water sectors. growth in these sectors was particularly strong in asia-pacific and the americas. the increases in revenue were partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $43 million. the increase in operating income in 2006 as compared to 2005 was due primarily to revenue growth mentioned above, along with the impact of operational excellence initiatives. this increase was partially offset by the impact of incremental stock option charges required under sfas no. 123r of $7 million. safety products net revenue, operating income and operating margin for safety products for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 revenue from product sales $ 1,752 $ 1,660 $ 1,668 service revenue 15 15 14 net revenue $ 1,767 $ 1,675 $ 1,682 operating income $ 286 $ 202 $ 278 operating margin 16.2 % 12.1 % 16.5 % net revenue for safety products increased $92 million, or 5.5%, during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily from strong performance in the fire suppression and electronic security businesses. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $48 million also contributed to the increase in revenue. the increase in the fire suppression business was driven by continued growth in the energy and marine sectors in the americas and the middle east as well as increased selling prices to help offset the significant cost increase of raw materials. the electronic security business also experienced favorable growth as a result of new product introductions and new market expansions. these increases were partially offset by continued softness in the life safety business in north america due to delays of federal assistance provided to fire departments. operating income increased $84 million to $286 million for the year ended september 28, 2007 compared to the prior year. prior year results included a $100 million charge related to a pre-existing voluntary replacement program ("vrp") for sprinkler heads in the fire suppression business. the deadline for filing claims to participate in the vrp ended on august 31, 2007. in light of the most current claims data, an additional $10 million charge was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007. net revenue for safety products decreased $7 million during 2006 as compared to 2005 driven by the unfavorable impact of $56 million from divested businesses as well as delays of federal assistance provided to fire departments which unfavorably impacted the life safety business. these decreases were 57 partially offset by stronger performance in the fire suppression business as a result of favorable market conditions in the united states, middle east and china and new product introductions, including clean agent fire suppression systems. the electronic security business also experienced favorable growth as a result of new product introductions and new market expansions. foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted revenues by $7 million. operating income decreased $76 million in 2006 over 2005 primarily as a result of a $100 million charge related to a pre-existing voluntary replacement program for sprinkler heads in the fire suppression business. this charge reflected our updated estimate of the additional costs necessary to bring the program to completion. the decrease in operating income during 2006 was partially offset by volume growth and higher margins from new product introductions and price increases in the fire suppression and electronic security business, as well as cost reduction benefits from the 2004 restructuring programs. also, 2006 results include the effect of incremental stock option charges required under sfas no. 123r of $5 million. electrical and metal products net revenue, operating income and operating margin for electrical and metal products for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 revenue from product sales $ 1,970 $ 1,946 $ 1,795 service revenue 4 3 3 net revenue $ 1,974 $ 1,949 $ 1,798 operating income $ 159 $ 319 $ 295 operating margin 8.1 % 16.4 % 16.4 % net revenue for electrical and metal products increased $25 million, or 1.3%, in 2007 as compared to 2006. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $20 million contributed to the increase in revenue. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by increased sales volume of armored cable products, steel tubular products, and higher selling prices and sales volumes in brazil. these increases were largely offset by the impact of lower selling prices on steel tubular products in north america. the decrease in operating income of $160 million, or 50.2%, in 2007 as compared to 2006 was primarily due to unfavorable spreads on both steel tubular and armored cable products. income generated by higher sales volume for both armored cable and steel tubular products were more than offset by lower selling prices and higher raw material prices. net revenue for electrical and metal products increased $151 million, or 8.4%, in 2006 as compared to 2005. the increase in net revenue in 2006 was largely driven by increased selling prices of armored cable products as a result of higher costs of copper and higher volumes of core steel products due to growth in the non-residential construction markets in north america. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $15 million also contributed to the increase in revenue. the above increases in revenue were partially offset by the impact of lower selling prices on core steel products in north america mainly due to lower costs of steel and a slower market for products in brazil. the increase in operating income of $24 million in 2006 as compared to 2005 was due primarily to favorable copper spreads and higher volumes of core steel products. these increases were partially offset by the impact of reduced spreads for core steel products and incremental stock option charges required under sfas no. 123r of $3 million. 58 corporate and other net revenue, operating income and operating margin for corporate and other metal products for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 revenue from product sales $ 120 $ 91 $ 93 service revenue net revenue $ 120 $ 91 $ 93 operations $ 24 $ 18 $ 18 corporate expense (3,736 ) (671 ) (890 ) operating loss $ (3,712 ) $ (653 ) $ (872 ) corporate and other includes the operating results of certain international buildings products businesses. corporate expense for 2007 included class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion, separation related costs of $104 million, and net restructuring charges of $40 million primarily related to the consolidation of certain headquarter functions. additionally, corporate expense for 2007 includes $13 million of charges related to the accelerated amortization of restricted shares in connection with the separation. in connection with the separation, we have initiated actions to reduce our corporate expense and are targeting a full year corporate expense run rate of $500 million by mid-2008. corporate expense in 2006 was $219 million lower than 2005. corporate expense for 2006 included $72 million of income related to the extinguishment of certain payment obligations under a split dollar life insurance policy and rabbi trust pursuant to a settlement with mr. kozlowski, former chief executive officer, and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. these income items were partially offset by incremental stock option charges of $47 million required under sfas 123r, separation related costs of $49 million and restructuring and divestiture charges of $2 million. on a comparative basis to 2005, corporate expense in 2006 also benefited from lower sarbanes-oxley compliance costs. corporate expense for 2005 included a $50 million charge for fines and penalties paid to resolve the matters raised in the sec investigation that commenced in june 2002, as well as a $70 million charge for estimated contingencies related to contested legal proceedings seeking to enforce retention agreements for five former executives. interest income and expense interest income was $102 million in 2007, as compared to $43 million and $39 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. the increase in interest income in 2007 is primarily related to interest earned on the class action settlement escrow of $41 million. interest expense was $313 million in 2007, as compared to $279 million in 2006 and $322 million in 2005. the increase in interest expense in 2007 is a result of interest on the class action settlement liability of $41 million, partially offset by lower debt outstanding. the decrease in interest expense in 2006 is primarily driven by lower debt balances, partially offset by the impact of higher interest rates on our interest rate swap program as compared to 2005. the weighted-average interest rate on total debt outstanding at september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were 6.3%, 6.0% and 5.7%, respectively. 59 in each period, net interest amounts were proportionally allocated to covidien and tyco electronics based on the debt amounts that we believe were utilized by covidien and tyco electronics historically inclusive of amounts directly incurred and is reflected as discontinued operations. allocated net interest was calculated using our historical weighted average interest rate on debt, including the impact of interest rate swap agreements. the portion of tyco's interest income allocated to covidien and tyco electronics was $35 million, $53 million and $43 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the portion of tyco's interest expense allocated to covidien and tyco electronics was $242 million, $378 million and $433 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. other expense, net other expense, net was $255 million in 2007 and $296 million in 2005. during 2007, other expense, net consisted primarily of a $259 million loss on early extinguishment of debt incurred in connection with the debt tender offers (see note 13), for which no tax benefit is available. this charge consists primarily of premiums paid and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts. the total loss on early extinguishment of debt was $647 million, with $259 million included in continuing operations and $388 million allocated to covidien and tyco electronics and included in discontinued operations. during 2005, other expense, net consisted primarily of losses related to the repurchase of outstanding convertible debt prior to its scheduled maturity partially offset by a $109 million court-ordered restitution award. during 2005, the company repurchased $1,241 million principal amount of its outstanding 2.75% convertible senior debentures for $1,823 million and $750 million principal amount of its outstanding 3.125% convertible senior debentures for $1,147 million. these repurchases resulted in a $1,013 million loss on the retirement of debt, including the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs, with $405 included in continuing operations and $608 million allocated to covidien and tyco electronics and included in discontinued operations. additionally, in september 2005, we were awarded a total of $134 million as restitution in connection with our litigation against mr. l. dennis kozlowski, our former chairman and chief executive officer, and mr. mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer and director (together, the "defendants"), as described in item 3. legal proceedings. the restitution award is comprised of $109 million of previously expensed compensation made to the defendants and reported as other expense, net in prior years and $25 million related to a loan receivable from mr. l. dennis kozlowski which had been reflected in the company's consolidated financial statements as a receivable. during 2007, the company received payment for these amounts. income taxes effective income tax rate the effective tax rate for 2007 is not meaningful primarily as a result of the class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion and the loss on early extinguishment of debt of $259 million for which no tax benefit is available. additionally, taxes for 2007 were negatively impacted by tax costs related to the separation. our effective income tax rate was 27.3% and 4.7% for 2006 and 2005, respectively. the increase in the effective tax rate from 2005 to 2006 was primarily the result of a lower release of deferred tax asset valuation allowances, increased profits in higher tax rate jurisdictions and adjustments to the tax accrual for legacy tax matters in 2005, partially offset by the loss on retirement of debt for which no benefit was available in 2005. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $666 million and $800 million at september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of 60 certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. we believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets. the valuation allowance was calculated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 109, " accounting for income taxes ," which requires a valuation allowance be established or maintained when it is "more likely than not" that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. further, management has reviewed with tax counsel the issues raised by these taxing authorities and the adequacy of these recorded amounts. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. other income tax matters in connection with the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics from tyco, tyco entered into a tax sharing agreement that generally governs covidien's, tyco electronics' and tyco's respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations after the distribution with respect to taxes, including ordinary course of business taxes and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the distribution of all of the shares of covidien or tyco electronics to qualify as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of section 355 of the code or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs to qualify for tax-favored treatment under the code. under the tax sharing agreement, with certain exceptions, tyco generally is responsible for the payment of 27% of any additional u.s. income taxes that are required to be paid to a u.s. tax authority as a result of a u.s. tax audit of covidien's, tyco electronics' or tyco's subsidiaries' income tax returns for all periods prior to the spin-offs. under the tax sharing agreement, the company shares responsibility for certain of tyco's, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, tyco, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. income tax returns. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are shared equally among the parties. at september 28, 2007, tyco has recorded a receivable from covidien and tyco electronics of $103 million reflected in other assets as our estimate of their portion of the tax sharing obligations with an offset to shareholders' equity. other liabilities include $543 million for the fair value of tyco's obligations under the tax sharing agreement, determined in accordance with fin 45 recognized with an offset to shareholders' equity. tyco will provide payment under the tax sharing agreement as the shared income tax liabilities are settled. settlement is expected to occur as the irs audit process is completed for the impacted years. given the nature of the shared liabilities, the maximum amount of potential future payments is not determinable. in the event the separation is determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or tyco electronics as a result 61 thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, then tyco, covidien and tyco electronics would be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or tyco electronics as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. the company is responsible for all of its own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, the company could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, the company may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its agreed-upon share of tyco's, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. see note 16 for further discussion of guarantees and indemnifications extended among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. also during 2006, the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that acceptance of these adjustments is probable and, accordingly, has recorded them in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the company has yet to complete proposed amendments to its u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which will primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. when the company's tax return positions are updated additional adjustments may be identified and recorded in the consolidated financial statements. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. during the third quarter of 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 though 2000 and issued anticipated revenue agents' reports ("rars") which reflect the irs' determination of proposed tax adjustments for the periods under audit. the rars propose tax audit adjustments to certain of the company's previously filed tax return positions, all of which the company expected and previously assessed at each balance sheet date. accordingly, the company has made no additional provision during the year ended september 28, 2007 as a result of the proposed audit adjustments in the rars. the company has agreed with the irs on adjustments totaling $498 million, with an estimated cash impact to the company of $458 million, and during the third quarter of 2007, the company paid $458 million, of which $163 million relates to the company's discontinued operations. the company 62 appealed other proposed tax audit adjustments totaling approximately $1 billion, and, as audit managing party as specified in the tax sharing agreement, the company intends to vigorously defend its prior filed tax return positions. the company continues to believe that the amounts recorded in its financial statements relating to these tax adjustments are sufficient. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in a material impact to the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, ultimate resolution of these matters could result in the company filing amended u.s. federal income tax returns for years subsequent to the current 1997 to 2000 audit period and could have a material impact on the company's effective tax rate in future reporting periods. additionally, the irs proposed civil fraud penalties against a prior subsidiary that was distributed to tyco electronics arising from alleged actions of former executives in connection with certain intercompany transfers of stock of simplex technologies in 1998 and 1999. based on statutory guidelines, we estimate the proposed penalties could range between $30 million and $50 million. the company as audit managing party will vigorously oppose the assertion of such penalties against tyco electronics, in part, because beginning in 2003 the company discovered, investigated and reported the conduct at issue to the irs and fully cooperated in the criminal prosecution of the company's former chief tax officer on a charge of willful filing of a false tax return. except for earnings that are currently distributed, no additional material provision has been made for u.s. or non-u.s. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or for unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested, the investments are essentially permanent in duration, or the company has concluded that no additional tax liability will arise as a result of distribution of such earnings. a liability could arise if amounts are distributed by such subsidiaries or if such subsidiaries are ultimately disposed. it is not practicable to estimate the additional income taxes related to permanently reinvested earnings or the basis differences related to investments in subsidiaries. discontinued operations and divestitures discontinued operations during the third quarter of 2007, tyco completed the separation and has presented its healthcare and electronics businesses as discontinued operations in all periods presented. the company has used available information to develop its best estimates for certain assets and liabilities related to the separation. in limited instances, final determination of the balances will be made in subsequent periods. during the fourth quarter of 2007, $72 million was recorded through shareholders' equity, primarily related to the cash true-up adjustment and other items, as specified in the separation and distribution agreement, adjustments to certain pre-separation tax liabilities, and the impact of filing final income tax returns in certain jurisdictions where those returns include a combination of tyco, covidien and/or tyco electronics legal entities. additional adjustments are not expected to be material and will be recorded through shareholder's equity in subsequent periods as tax returns are finalized. during 2007, aij, a joint venture that was majority owned by infrastructure services, was sold for $42 million in net cash proceeds and a pre-tax gain on sale of $19 million was recorded. additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2007, the remaining portion of infrastructure services met the held for sale criteria and its results of operations have been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. infrastructure services provides consulting, engineering, construction management and operating services for the water, wastewater, environmental, transportation and facilities market. the company has assessed the recoverability of these businesses carrying values and will continue to assess recoverability based on current fair value, less cost to sell, until the businesses are sold. on september 17, 2007, the company executed a definitive agreement to sell for approximately 63 $295 million in cash 100% of the stock of eteo empresa de transmissao de energia do oeste ltda., a brazilian subsidiary of infrastructure services. the transaction is subject to brazilian regulatory approval and normal closing conditions and is expected to close by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2008. the company expects to sell the remaining portion of infrastructure services by the end of fiscal 2008. the aij, infrastructure services, plastics, adhesives and ludlow coated products and a&amp;e products businesses met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. losses on divestitures during 2007, 2006 and 2005, the company recorded $4 million, $2 million and $23 million, respectively, of divestiture charges in continuing operations in connection with the write-down to fair value, less cost to sell, of certain businesses. the fair value used for the impairment assessments was primarily based on the terms and conditions included or expected to be included in the sales agreements. acquisitions during 2007, cash paid for acquisitions included in continuing operations, primarily within adt worldwide, safety products and flow control, totaled $31 million. cash paid for acquisitions by businesses included in continuing operations during 2006 and 2005 totaled $5 million and $6 million, respectively. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash from operations. the results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in tyco's consolidated results from the respective acquisition dates. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. goodwill impairment in connection with the separation, during the third quarter of 2007 tyco reorganized into a new management and segment reporting structure. as part of these organizational changes, the company assessed new reporting units and conducted valuations to determine the assignment of goodwill to the new reporting units based on their estimated relative fair values. following the relative fair value goodwill allocation, the company then tested goodwill for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded its fair value, goodwill was considered potentially impaired. where goodwill was potentially impaired, the company compared the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill to the carrying amount of that goodwill. the carrying amount of goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill in the australia and new zealand security services business, part of the adt worldwide segment. as a result, the company recognized a goodwill impairment of $46 million in the third quarter of 2007. in determining fair value, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and market place data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgments in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. changes to these factors and judgments could result in impairment to one or more of our reporting units in a future period. see note 1. 64 cumulative effect of accounting change during 2006, the company adopted financial accounting standards board interpretation ("fin") no. 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143 ." fin no. 47 clarifies the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with an asset retirement when the timing and (or) method of settling the obligation are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity and clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. fin no. 47 requires that conditional asset retirement obligations, along with the associated capitalized asset retirement costs, be initially reported at their fair values. upon adoption, the company recognized a liability of $32 million for asset retirement obligations and an increase of $10 million in the carrying amount of the related assets, of which $19 million and $5 million are reflected in liabilities and assets of discontinued operations, respectively. the initial recognition resulted in a cumulative effect of accounting change of $14 million after-tax loss ($22 million pre-tax), reflecting the accumulated depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized in prior periods had the provisions of fin no. 47 been in effect at the time. during 2005, the company changed the measurement date for its pension and postretirement benefit plans, from september 30 th to august 31 st , effective october 1, 2004. the company believes that the one-month change of measurement date is a preferable change as it allows management adequate time to evaluate and report the actuarial information in the company's consolidated financial statements under the accelerated reporting deadlines. as a result of this change, the company recorded a $21 million after-tax gain ($28 million pre-tax) cumulative effect of accounting change. 65 critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. the following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. depreciation and amortization methods for security monitoring-related assets tyco generally considers assets related to the acquisition of new customers in its electronic security business in three asset categories: internally generated residential subscriber systems, internally generated commercial subscriber systems (collectively referred to as subscriber system assets) and customer accounts acquired through the adt dealer program (referred to as dealer intangibles). subscriber system assets include installed property, plant and equipment for which tyco retains ownership and deferred costs directly related to the customer acquisition and system installation. subscriber system assets and any deferred revenue resulting from the customer acquisition are accounted for over the expected life of the subscriber. in certain geographical areas where the company has a large number of customers that behave in a similar manner over time, the company accounts for subscriber system assets and related deferred revenue using pools, with separate pools for the components of subscriber system assets and any related deferred revenue based on the month and year of acquisition. effective as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, tyco changed the depreciation method and estimated useful life used to account for pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in north america) and related deferred revenue from the straight-line method with lives ranging from 10 to 14 years to an accelerated method with lives up to 15 years. the accelerated method utilizes declining balance rates based on geographical area ranging from 160% to 195% for residential subscriber pools and 145% to 265% for commercial subscriber pools and converts to a straight-line methodology when the resulting depreciation charge is greater than that from the accelerated method. the company will continue to use a straight-line method with a 14-year life for non-pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in europe and asia) and related deferred revenue, with remaining balances written off upon customer termination. the change in the method and estimated useful life used to account for pooled subscriber system assets and related deferred revenue resulted from our ongoing analysis of all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data specific to customer categories and geographical areas, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems. the pertinent factors have been influenced by management's ongoing customer retention programs, as well as tactical and strategic initiatives to improve service delivery, customer satisfaction, and the credit worthiness of the subscriber customer base. all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data specific to customer categories and geographical areas, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems, will continue to be reviewed by the company at each balance sheet date to assess the continued appropriateness of methods and estimated useful lives. effective as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, tyco also changed the estimated useful life of dealer intangibles in geographical areas comprising approximately 90% of the net carrying value of dealer intangibles from 12 to 15 years. the company continues to amortize dealer intangible assets on an accelerated basis. the change in the estimated useful life used to account for dealer intangibles resulted from our ongoing analysis of all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems. the pertinent factors have been influenced by management's ongoing customer retention programs, as well as tactical and strategic initiatives to improve service delivery, customer satisfaction, and the credit worthiness of the subscriber customer base. 66 attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business were 12.3%, 14.2% and 15.0% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. revenue recognition contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, large security intruder systems and other construction-related projects are recorded primarily under the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon estimated contract revenue and related total cost of the project at completion. the risk of this methodology is its dependence upon estimates of costs at completion, which are subject to the uncertainties inherent in long-term contracts. revisions to cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits each period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they become determinable. if estimates are inaccurate, there is risk that our revenue and profits for the period may be overstated or understated. product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other markets participants. rebates are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. loss contingencies accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. the accruals are based on judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarially determined estimates. additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. income taxes in determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. these estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. in estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future state, federal and international pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. we currently have recorded significant valuation allowances that we intend to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. our income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. the realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. if a change in a valuation allowance occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition, such adjustment may impact goodwill rather than the income tax provision. changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. management is not aware of any such changes that would have a material effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these reserves 67 in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if the tax liabilities relate to tax uncertainties existing at the date of the acquisition of a business, the adjustment of such tax liabilities will result in an adjustment to the goodwill recorded at the date of acquisition. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually and more frequently if triggering events occur. in performing these assessments, management relies on various factors, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable transactions and other market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. since judgment is involved in performing fair value measurements used in goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analyses, there is risk that the carrying values of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be overstated. we elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for all goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. when testing for goodwill impairment, the company follows the guidance prescribed in sfas no. 142, " goodwill and other intangible assets. " first, the company compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered potentially impaired and further tests are performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. in the second step of the goodwill impairment test, the company compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill. if the carrying amount of reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the carrying amount of goodwill over its implied fair value. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. the company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. disruptions to our business such as end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, the divestiture of a significant component of a reporting unit and market capitalization declines may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment first step valuation analysis for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. goodwill impairments related to continuing operations were $46 million during 2007. there were no goodwill impairments related to continuing operations during 2006 and 2005. long-lived assets assets held and used by the company, including property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable. tyco performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if impairment exists. for purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, tyco groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identified. if an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. impairments to long-lived assets to be disposed of are recorded based upon the fair value of the applicable assets. the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets is based on assumptions concerning the amount and 68 timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. since judgment is involved in determining the fair value and useful lives of long-lived assets, there is a risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may be overstated or understated. pension and postretirement benefits our pension expense and obligations are developed from actuarial valuations. two critical assumptions in determining pension expense and obligations are the discount rate and expected long-term return on plan assets. we evaluate these assumptions at least annually. other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover and are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. actual results may differ from actuarial assumptions. the discount rate represents the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments and is used to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows for benefit obligations under our pension plans. a decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of pension benefit obligations. a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase our present value of pension obligations by approximately $90 million. we consider the current and expected asset allocations of our pension plans, as well as historical and expected long-term rates of return on those types of plan assets, in determining the expected long-term return on plan assets. a 50 basis point decrease in the expected long-term return on plan assets would increase our pension expense by approximately $10 million. liquidity and capital resources the sources of our cash flow from operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations for the years ended september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005 were as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 2005 cash flows from operating activities: operating (loss) income $ (1,715 ) $ 1,370 $ 1,191 goodwill impairment 46 non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges, net 24 2 2 losses on divestitures 4 2 23 depreciation and amortization (1) 1,151 1,182 1,204 non-cash compensation expense 173 151 72 deferred income taxes (11 ) (414 ) (227 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 94 56 102 other, net (2) 28 (36 ) 147 class action settlement liability 2,992 net change in working capital (405 ) 226 125 interest income 102 43 39 interest expense (313 ) (279 ) (322 ) income tax expense (334 ) (310 ) (29 ) net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,836 $ 1,993 $ 2,327 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net (3) $ (646 ) $ (519 ) $ (463 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 7 8 8 acquisition of customer accounts (adt dealer program) (409 ) (373 ) (328 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (10 ) (7 ) (14 ) voluntary pension contributions 23 83 (1) includes depreciation expense of $638 million, $665 million and $676 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and amortization of intangible assets of $513 million, $517 million and $528 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. (2) includes the add-back of losses on the retirement of debt of $259 million, $1 million and $405 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. (3) includes net proceeds of $23 million, $39 million and $53 million received for the sale/disposition of property, plant and equipment in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 69 the net change in total working capital was a cash decrease of $405 million in 2007. the components of this change are set forth in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the significant changes in working capital included a $166 million increase in inventories, a $128 million increase in accounts receivable, and $244 million of changes in income taxes, net, which includes a payment of legacy tax liabilities. additionally, working capital includes the collection of $38 million related to restitution owed by mark h. swartz, former chief financial officer and director, and $98 million related to the restitution owed by l. dennis kozlowski, former chairman and chief executive officer. during the third quarter of 2007, tyco entered into the class action settlement and borrowed under its unsecured bridge loan and revolving credit facilities to fund the $2.992 billion liability, placing the proceeds in escrow for the benefit of the class. during 2007, we completed the sale of the aij business for $42 million in net cash proceeds. additionally, during 2007, we received $271 million due to the liquidation of investments in a rabbi trust, as well as $136 million in restitution payments owed by former executives as described above. we continue to fund capital expenditures to improve the cost structure of our businesses, to invest in new processes and technology, and to maintain high quality production standards. capital spending increased to $669 million in 2007 from $558 million in 2006. the level of capital expenditures in 2008 is expected to exceed spending levels in 2007 and is also expected to exceed depreciation. in september 2007, tyco's board of directors approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program under which, we repurchased 1.3 million common shares for $56 million. during the first quarter of 2007 we repurchased 5 million common shares for $659 million completing the $2.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in may 2006. this followed the repurchase of 13 million common shares for $1.3 billion in 2006. additionally during 2006, we completed the $1.5 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in july of 2005 with the repurchase of 11 million common shares for $1.2 billion. in 2006, we commenced the termination of our interest rate and cross currency swaps, which were designated as fair value hedges. during 2007, we terminated the remaining swaps. such terminations resulted in a net cash inflow of $63 million. during the first quarter of 2007, we launched a $350 million to $400 million company-wide restructuring program. during 2007, 2006 and 2005 we paid out $70 million, $32 million and $103 million, respectively, in cash related to restructuring activities. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our restructuring activities. income taxes paid, net of refunds, related to continuing operations was $650 million in 2007, which included $295 million of legacy tax liability payments of amounts not yet due to the irs in respect of their examination of our 1997 through 2000 u.s. federal income tax returns (the ultimate resolution of which is uncertain). during 2007, 2006 and 2005, tyco paid $409 million, $373 million and $328 million of cash, respectively, to acquire approximately 415,000, 401,000 and 364,000 customer contracts for electronic security services through the adt dealer program. during 2007, 2006 and 2005, we paid $10 million, $7 million and $14 million, respectively, in cash for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet and other contingencies. at september 28, 2007 holdback liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets were $16 million, which are included in other liabilities. at september 28, 2007, $14 million of acquisition liabilities remained on our consolidated balance sheets, of which $4 million are included in accrued and other current liabilities and $10 million are included in other liabilities. 70 as previously discussed, effective june 29, 2007, the company completed the separation. in connection with the separation, we paid $349 million in separation costs during 2007 and $96 million in 2006, including $256 million and $77 million, respectively, recorded in cash provided by discontinued operating activities. we expect that we will incur the remaining cash outflows related to the separation during the first six months of fiscal 2008. these amounts will primarily consist of tax restructuring, professional services and employee-related costs. capitalization shareholders' equity was $15.6 billion or $31.50 per share, at september 28, 2007, compared to $35.4 billion or $71.06 per share, at september 29, 2006. shareholders' equity decreased $19.8 billion primarily due to the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics to shareholders. this decrease was also due to net loss of $1.7 billion, the repurchase of common shares by a subsidiary of $727 million, and dividends declared of $668 million, offset by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $883 million. in connection with the separation, as approved by our board of directors, we executed a reverse stock split, and as a result, four tyco shares were converted into one share. shareholder approval was obtained at the march 8, 2007 special general meeting of shareholders. our debt levels decreased significantly as compared to september 29, 2006 primarily due to the debt tenders and covidien and tyco electronics assuming their portion of related borrowings. at september 28, 2007, total debt decreased $5.1 billion to $4.5 billion, as compared to $9.6 billion at september 29, 2006. total debt as a percentage of total capitalization (total debt and shareholders' equity) was 22% at september 28, 2007, which increased slightly as compared to 21% at september 29, 2006 due to the decrease in shareholders' equity mentioned above. see debt tenders and bank and revolving credit facilities below for further discussion. our cash balance decreased to $1.9 billion at september 28, 2007, as compared to $2.2 billion at september 29, 2006. the decrease in cash was primarily due to the debt repayments referred to above and the class action settlement escrow. these decreases were partially offset by cash flows provided by operations and transfers from discontinued operations. as previously discussed, in september 2007, the board of directors approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program. pursuant to the program, we may repurchase tyco shares from time to time in open market purchases at prevailing market prices, in negotiated transactions off the market, or pursuant to an approved 10b5-1 trading plan in accordance with applicable regulations. a rule 10b5-1 trading plan permits the company to repurchase its shares during periods when the company would not normally be active in the trading market due to insider trading laws, provided the plan is adopted when the company is not aware of material non-public information. under a rule 10b5-1 trading plan, we would be unable to repurchase shares above a pre-determined price per share. additionally, the maximum number of shares that we may purchase each day would be governed by rule 10b-18. dividend payments were $791 million in 2007. on september 13, 2007 tyco's board of directors approved a quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of $0.15 per share payable on november 1, 2007 to shareholders of record of tyco international ltd. post separation on october 1, 2007. the timing, declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common shares, however, falls within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the statutory requirements of bermuda law, our financial condition and results of operations, the capital requirements of our businesses, industry practice and any other factors the board of directors deems relevant. 71 debt tenders on april 27, 2007, we announced that, in connection with the separation, we and certain of our subsidiaries that are issuers of our corporate debt had commenced tender offers to purchase for cash substantially all of our outstanding u.s. dollar denominated public debt, aggregating approximately $6.6 billion. of this amount, approximately $5.9 billion was non-convertible u.s. debt and $750 million was convertible u.s. debt, with maturities from 2007 to 2029. in conjunction with the tender offers, the relevant issuer solicited consents for certain clarifying amendments to the indentures pursuant to which the debt was issued. we received acceptance notices for approximately $2.1 billion, or 36% of our outstanding non-convertible u.s. debt and approximately $726 million or 97% of our outstanding convertible u.s. debt. debt which was not tendered in an amount of approximately $3.8 billion remains with us. additionally, tyco international group s.a., our wholly-owned subsidiary organized under the laws of luxembourg ("tigsa"), commenced on april 30, 2007 tender offers to purchase for cash all of its outstanding euro and pound sterling denominated public debt, aggregating the equivalent of approximately $1.9 billion, with maturities from 2008 to 2031, issued under its euro medium term note programme (the "emtn notes") and a consent solicitation for certain clarifying amendments to the fiscal agency agreement pursuant to which the emtn notes were issued. we received acceptance notices for approximately $1.5 billion, or 80% of our emtn notes. the remaining emtn notes were repurchased pursuant to an optional redemption. in connection with the debt tender offers, we incurred a pre-tax charge for the early extinguishment of debt of approximately $647 million, for which no tax benefit is available (see note 5). tigsa's remaining debt was contributed to tyco international finance s.a. ("tifsa"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the company and successor company to tigsa. bank and revolving credit facilities on april 25, 2007, we, certain of our subsidiaries and a syndicate of banks entered into three 364-day unsecured bridge loan facilities with an aggregate commitment amount of $10 billion. at the end of may 2007, the aggregate commitment amount under these facilities was increased to $12.5 billion. we borrowed approximately $8.9 billion under the unsecured bridge loan facilities to fund our debt tender offers, repay our existing bank credit facilities and to finance the class action settlement. of this amount, approximately $4.3 billion and $3.6 billion was assigned to covidien and tyco electronics, respectively. we initially guaranteed the new unsecured bridge loan facilities and covidien and tyco electronics each assumed tyco's obligations with respect to their unsecured bridge loan facilities upon the separation. we no longer guarantee those assumed amounts. this facility has a variable interest rate based on libor. the margin over libor payable by tifsa can vary based on changes in our credit rating. as of september 28, 2007, our aggregate commitment under our unsecured bridge loan facility was $4.0 billion and $367 million remained outstanding with a weighted-average interest rate of 5.5%. on october 1, 2007, the commitments with respect to the unused portion of our unsecured bridge loan facility expired. our unsecured revolving credit facility described below and our letter of credit facility described in commitments and contingencies contractual obligations , provide the lenders under those facilities with the right to demand repayment of outstanding amounts, and to terminate commitments to extend additional credit, if (i) certain of our outstanding public debt is declared due and payable and (ii) we do not have sufficient liquidity available under our unsecured bridge loan facility to refinance such debt. as a result, on november 27, 2007, we secured additional firm commitments from certain of our lenders under the bridge loan facility. these additional commitments provide us with sufficient liquidity to repay the outstanding public debt with borrowings of up to 72 $4.0 billion. the additional commitments expire on, and any borrowings under the facility would mature on, november 25, 2008. the facility may only be used to repay, settle or otherwise extinguish the public debt described above, which is the subject of ongoing litigation between us and the bank of new york. for more information regarding such litigation, see item 3. legal proceedings indenture trustee litigation. additionally, on april 25, 2007, we, certain of our subsidiaries and a syndicate of banks entered into three unsecured revolving credit facilities with an initial aggregate commitment amount of $2.5 billion that increased to $4.25 billion at the time of the separation. of the aggregate commitment amount of $4.25 billion, a $1.25 billion commitment is available to us, and a $1.5 billion commitment was available to each of covidien and tyco electronics. we will use the revolving credit facilities for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. we initially guaranteed the new revolving credit facilities and covidien and tyco electronics each assumed our obligations with respect to their revolving credit facilities upon the separation. we no longer guarantee those assumed amounts. at september 28, 2007, we have borrowed $308 million under our unsecured revolving credit facility. this facility has a variable interest rate based on libor. the margin over libor payable by tifsa can vary based on changes in our credit rating. the unsecured revolving credit facilities replaced tigsa's existing $1.0 billion 5-year revolving credit facility and $1.5 billion 3-year revolving bank credit facility, which were terminated by june 1, 2007 prior to their scheduled expiration dates of december 16, 2009 and december 21, 2007, respectively. on the date of termination, no amounts were borrowed under these facilities. tifsa's bank credit agreements contain customary terms and conditions, and financial covenants that limit the ratio of our debt to our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and that limit our ability to incur subsidiary debt or grant liens on our property. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our business. we believe we are in compliance with all of our debt covenants. the bank of new york, as indenture trustee under indentures dated as of june 9, 1998 and november 12, 2003, is contesting whether the separation transactions were permitted under such indentures. see item 3. legal proceedings indenture trustee litigation. the following table details our long-term debt ratings at september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006: 2007 2006 moody's baa1 baa3 standard &amp; poor's bbb bbb+ fitch bbb bbb+ the security ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 73 commitments and contingencies contractual obligations contractual obligations and commitments for principal debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and other obligations at september 28, 2007 is as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total debt (1) (2) $ 372 $ 517 $ 1 $ 517 $ 1,158 $ 1,848 $ 4,413 capital leases (1) 8 7 6 4 2 37 64 operating leases 291 226 171 123 72 157 1,040 purchase obligations (3) 114 7 3 124 total contractual cash obligations (4) $ 785 $ 757 $ 181 $ 644 $ 1,232 $ 2,042 $ 5,641 (1) excludes interest. (2) excludes debt discount and swap activity. (3) purchase obligations consist of commitments for purchases of good and services. (4) other long-term liabilities primarily consist of the following: pension and postretirement costs, income taxes, warranty and environmental liabilities and are excluded from this table. we are unable to estimate the timing of payment for these items due to the inherent uncertainties of obligations of this type. the minimum required contributions to our pension plans are expected to be approximately $69 million in 2008 and we expect to pay $7 million in 2008 related to postretirement benefit plans. at september 28, 2007, tifsa had unsecured credit facilities of $1.25 billion due april 25, 2012, of which approximately $0.9 billion was undrawn and available (see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). in addition, certain of the company's operating subsidiaries have uncommitted overdraft and similar types of facilities, which total $55 million, of which $51 million was undrawn and available. these facilities expire at various dates through the year 2009, most of which are renewable and are established primarily within our international operations. on june 21, 2007, tyco and tifsa entered into a new $500 million letter of credit facility, with citibank n.a. as administrative agent, expiring on december 15, 2007. the facility provides for the issuance of letters of credit, supported by a related line of credit facility. tifsa may only borrow under the line of credit agreement to reimburse the bank for obligations with respect to letters of credit issued under this facility. the covenants under this facility are substantially similar to the covenants under the bridge loan and revolving credit facilities. tifsa would pay interest on any outstanding borrowings at a variable interest rate, based on the bank's base rate or the eurodollar rate, as defined. as of september 28, 2007, letters of credit of $494 million have been issued under the $500 million credit facility and $6 million remains available for issuance. there were no amounts borrowed under this credit facility at september 28, 2007. on october 19, 2007, the facility was amended. the amendment extended the maturity date to june 15, 2008 and adjusted the interest rate spreads and fees applicable to extensions of credit thereunder. loans under the amended letter of credit agreement will continue to bear interest based on libor plus the applicable margin. at september 28, 2007, the company had total outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees of $1.1 billion. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in connection with the separation, the company entered into a liability sharing agreement regarding certain class actions that were pending against tyco prior to the separation. subject to the 74 terms and conditions of the separation and distribution agreement, the company will manage and control all the legal matters related to assumed contingent liabilities as described in the separation and distribution agreement, including the defense or settlement thereof, subject to certain limitations. tyco has assumed 27%, covidien has assumed 42% and tyco electronics has assumed 31% of certain tyco pre-separation contingent and other corporate liabilities, which include securities class action litigation, erisa class action litigation, certain legacy tax contingencies and any actions with respect to the spin-offs or the distributions made or brought by any third party except for litigation related to our public debt. any amounts relating to these contingent and other corporate liabilities paid by tyco after the spin-offs that are subject to the allocation provisions of the separation and distribution agreement will be shared among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics pursuant to the same allocation ratio. as described in the separation and distribution agreement, tyco, tyco electronics and covidien are jointly and severally liable for all amounts relating to the previously disclosed securities class action settlement. all costs and expenses that tyco incurs in connection with the defense of such litigation, other than the amount of any judgment or settlement, which will be allocated in the manner described above, will be borne equally by covidien, tyco electronics and tyco. legal matters class actions for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's securities class actions, class action settlement, securities class action proceedings, shareholder derivative litigation, erisa related litigation, tyco litigation against former senior management, litigation related to our public debt and various other legal matters, see item 3. legal proceedings. we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. in addition, our insurance carriers may decline coverage, or our coverage may be insufficient to cover our expenses and liability, in some or all of these matters. while we may from time to time seek to engage plaintiff's counsel in settlement discussions, we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. investigations for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to governmental investigations related to tyco, see item 3. legal proceedings subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities. we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government entities or instrumentalities (which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss, or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. environmental matters for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's environmental matters, see item 1. business environmental matters. 75 asbestos matters tyco and some of its subsidiaries and certain subsidiaries of covidien are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, covidien has assumed all liabilities for pending cases filed against covidien's subsidiaries. consistent with the national trend of increased asbestos-related litigation, the company has observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits in the past several years. a limited number of the cases allege premises liability, based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos while on a subsidiary's property. a majority of the cases involve product liability claims, based principally on allegations of past distribution of heat-resistant industrial products incorporating asbestos or the past distribution of industrial valves that incorporated asbestos-containing gaskets or packing. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. tyco's involvement in asbestos cases has been limited because its subsidiaries did not mine or produce asbestos. furthermore, in the company's experience, a large percentage of these claims were never substantiated and have been dismissed by the courts. the company will continue to vigorously defend the lawsuits that have been filed against it and its subsidiaries. to date, the company has not suffered an adverse verdict in a trial court proceeding related to asbestos claims. when appropriate, the company settles claims; however, the total amount paid in any year to settle and defend all asbestos claims has been immaterial. as of september 28, 2007, there were approximately 5,600 asbestos liability cases pending against the company and its subsidiaries. the company estimates its pending asbestos claims that were incurred but not reported, as well as related insurance and indemnification recoveries. the company's estimate of the liability for pending and future claims is based on claim experience over the past five years and covers claims expected to be filed over the next seven years. the company believes that it has adequate amounts recorded related to these matters. while it is not possible at this time to determine with certainty the ultimate outcome of these asbestos-related proceedings, the company believes that the final outcome of all known and anticipated future claims, after taking into account its substantial indemnification rights and insurance coverage, will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. income taxes tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed as probable and estimable have been recorded. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's income taxes, see item 3. legal proceedings income tax matters. compliance matters tyco has received and responded to various allegations and other information that certain improper payments were made by tyco subsidiaries in recent years. as previously reported, we have been informed that two subsidiaries in our flow control business in italy have been named in a request for criminal charges filed by the milan public prosecutor's office. tyco has reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it has taken in response to the allegations. tyco also informed the doj and the sec that it has retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), that it would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies, and that it would present its factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. the company has and will continue to communicate with the doj 76 and sec to provide updates on the baseline review being conducted by outside counsel, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper payments identified by the company in the course of its ongoing compliance activities. covidien and tyco electronics agreed, in connection with the separation, to cooperate with the company in its response to these allegations. to date, the baseline review has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements. at this time, tyco cannot predict the outcome of these matters and other allegations reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of these matters. however, it is possible that the company may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's compliance matters, see item 3. legal proceedings compliance matters. other matters the company is a party to a contract dispute arising from earth tech's contract with the city of phoenix, arizona for the expansion of the city's 91 st avenue waste water treatment plant. both earth tech and the city of phoenix have filed lawsuits in the local county superior court alleging the other party has breached the contract. at this time, tyco cannot predict the outcome of this matter and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of this matter. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's other matters, see item 3. legal proceedings other matters. the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. backlog at september 28, 2007, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $9.1 billion, compared to a backlog of $8.2 billion at september 29, 2006. we expect that approximately 86% of our backlog at september 28, 2007 will be filled during 2008. backlog by segment at september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 is as follows ($ in millions): 2007 2006 adt worldwide $ 6,137 $ 5,776 fire protection services 1,108 1,050 flow control 1,579 1,115 safety products 144 133 electrical and metal products 113 101 corporate and other 4 3 $ 9,085 $ 8,178 within adt worldwide, backlog increased primarily as a result of strong bookings across all regions. backlog for adt worldwide also includes recurring revenue-in-force, which represents 12 months' fees for monitoring and maintenance services under contract in the security business. the amount of recurring revenue-in-force at september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 was $3.93 billion and $3.65 billion, respectively. backlog within fire protection services increased primarily as a result of increased orders in north america. flow control had increased bookings mostly in the asia-pacific and europe regions. 77 off-balance sheet arrangements sale of accounts receivable certain of tyco's international businesses utilize the sale of accounts receivable as short-term financing mechanisms. the aggregate amount outstanding under the company's remaining international accounts receivable programs was $76 million, $75 million and $79 million at september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005, respectively. guarantees certain of the company's business segments have guaranteed the performance of third-parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. the terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from 2008 through the completion of such transactions. the guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are certain guarantees or indemnifications extended among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics in accordance with the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement. at the time of the separation, tyco recorded a liability necessary to recognize the fair value of such guarantees and indemnifications in accordance with financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 45, " guarantor's accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others. " fair values were determined with the assistance of a third party valuation firm. the liability necessary to reflect the fair value of these guarantees and indemnifications is $543 million, which is included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. the guarantees primarily relate to certain contingent tax liabilities included in the tax sharing agreement. see note 16 for further discussion of the tax sharing agreement. in addition, tyco historically provided support in the form of financial and/or performance guarantees to various covidien and tyco electronics operating entities. in connection with the separation, the company worked with the guarantee counterparties to cancel or assign these guarantees to covidien or tyco electronics. to the extent these guarantees were not assigned prior to the separation date, tyco assumed primary liability on any remaining support. the estimated fair values of those obligations are $7 million, which are included in other liabilities with an offset to shareholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheets, and were recorded in accordance with fin no. 45. in disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. the company does not have the ability to estimate the potential liability from such indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. however, the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. see item 1. business environmental matters for a discussion of these liabilities. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 78 the company records estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty, see notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements. in 2001, a division of safety products initiated a voluntary replacement program ("vrp") associated with the acquisition of central sprinkler. the vrp relates to the replacement of certain o-ring seal sprinkler heads which were originally manufactured by central sprinkler prior to tyco's acquisition. under this program, the sprinkler heads are being replaced free of charge to property owners. in the third quarter of 2006, the company completed a comprehensive review of reported claims, recent claim rates and cost trends and further assessed the future of the program. the company determined that an additional liability was necessary in order to satisfy the company's obligation under the vrp. as a result, the company recorded a $100 million charge which was reflected in cost of sales. on may 1, 2007, the consumer products safety commission and the company announced an august 31, 2007 deadline for filing claims to participate in the vrp. the company will fulfill all valid claims for replacement of qualifying sprinklers received up to august 31, 2007. during the fourth quarter of 2007, the company further assessed the expected cost to complete the program in light of the most current claims data and determined that an additional accrual of $10 million was necessary to satisfy the estimated remaining obligation. the ultimate cost to complete the program will be impacted by a number of factors such as changes in material and labor costs, and the actual number of sprinkler heads replaced. actual results could differ from this estimate. settlements during 2007 include cash expenditures of $38 million related to the vrp. accounting pronouncements recently adopted accounting pronouncements in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 158, " employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106 and 132(r) ." sfas no. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. under sfas no. 158, companies are required to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of their fiscal year end. the company presently uses a measurement date of august 31st. sfas no. 158 also requires additional disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. the recognition provisions of sfas no. 158 are effective for fiscal 2007, while the measurement date provisions become effective in fiscal 2009. the company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of sfas no. 158 as of september 28, 2007. the company recognized a net $111 million liability through a reduction in shareholders' equity. in september 2006, the sec issued staff accounting bulletin ("sab") no. 108, " considering the effects of prior year misstatements when quantifying misstatements in current year financial statements ." sab no. 108 requires that companies utilize a "dual approach" in assessing the quantitative effects of financial statement misstatements. the dual approach includes both an income statement focused and balance sheet focused assessment. sab no. 108 is effective for tyco in fiscal 2007. the implementation of sab no. 108 did not have a material impact on tyco's results of operations, financial position or cash flows. recently issued accounting pronouncements in february 2007, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 159, " the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities ." sfas no. 159 permits an entity, on a contract-by-contract basis, to make an irrevocable election to account for certain types of financial instruments and warranty and insurance contracts at fair value, rather than historical cost, with changes in the fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recognized in earnings. sfas no. 159 is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. 79 the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 159 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, " fair value measurements ," which enhances existing guidance for measuring assets and liabilities at fair value. sfas no. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. sfas no. 157 is effective for tyco beginning in fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact, if any, that sfas no. 157 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. in june 2006, the fasb issued fin no. 48, " accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109 ." this interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. fin no. 48 is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. the company is currently implementing and assessing the expected impact of adopting fin no. 48. based on the assessment to date, management does not expect the adoption to have a material effect on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the sec, or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, web casts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, product expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures, the separation or other matters, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions; the demand for tyco's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which tyco competes; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigation and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations including its business operations outside the united states; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings as a result of actions taken by our former senior corporate management; effect of income tax audit settlements; the ratings on our debt and our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; 80 our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including currency exchange rate fluctuations; availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials, including steel and copper; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and six sigma initiatives; potential further impairment of our goodwill and/or our long-lived assets; the impact of fluctuations in the price of tyco common shares; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. governmental laws and regulations; the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the united states that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco's incorporation in bermuda or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its incorporation in bermuda; and the potential distraction costs associated with negative publicity relating to actions of our former senior corporate management. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the ordinary course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures we assume. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross currency swaps, foreign currency options, and interest rate swaps. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. during fiscal year 2007, the company elected to change its presentation of market risk information from a tabular format to a disclosure based on the results of sensitivity analysis. management believes this method of presentation provides more useful information for assessing the company's overall exposure to market risks. the results of our sensitivity analysis represent an estimate of reasonably possible outcomes based on hypothetical market conditions and are not necessarily indicative of actual results. although, there were no material changes in our primary risk exposures and risk management activities, our level of exposure decreased across all risk categories as a result of the spin-off of our healthcare and electronics businesses. 81 foreign currency exposures we economically hedge our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and options. during 2007, our largest exposures to foreign exchange rates existed primarily with the british pound, euro, brazilian real, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign exchange contracts is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 28, 2007. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $248 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $303 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. previously, we hedged our investment in certain foreign operations. in december 2006, due to required changes to the legal entity structure to facilitate the separation, the company determined that it will no longer consider certain intercompany foreign currency transactions to be long-term investments. as a result, the related foreign currency transaction gains and losses on such investments were recorded in the income statement subsequent to this determination rather than to the currency translation component of shareholders' equity. forward contracts that were previously designated as hedges of these net investments continued to be used to manage this exposure but were no longer designated as net investment hedges. also in connection with the separation and the debt tender, the company de-designated its 6.125% euro denominated public notes due 2007 on march 29, 2007, its 5.5% euro denominated public notes due 2008 and its 6.5% british pound denominated public notes due 2031 on may 21, 2007, that had previously been considered as hedges of net investments in certain foreign operations. at september 28, 2007, the company did not hedge its net investment in foreign operations, and all of its outstanding borrowings were denominated in u.s. dollars. interest rate exposures our long-term debt portfolio primarily consists of fixed-rate instruments. historically, the company managed its exposure to interest rates by entering into interest rate and cross-currency swaps designated as fair value hedges. in assessing the potential risks related to movements in interest rates, we terminated the interest rate and cross-currency swaps in several tranches beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006. during the first quarter of 2007, we terminated the remaining contracts with a total notional amount of $0.6 billion, resulting in an aggregate terminated notional amount of $3.1 billion. the settlement of these swaps resulted in a net cash inflow of $63 million for the first quarter of 2007. since the interest rate swaps were designated as hedging instruments of outstanding debt, the related $32 million loss adjustment to the carrying value of the related debt will be amortized over the remaining life of the related debt instruments. in connection with the debt tender offer, $9 million of unamortized loss on interest rate swaps was accelerated and recorded as a loss on retirement of debt and included in other expense, net (see note 13). at september 28, 2007 there were no interest rate swaps outstanding. commodity exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of raw materials used in some of our products and may, in limited circumstances, enter into hedging contracts to manage those exposures. these exposures are monitored as an integral part of our risk management program. at september 28, 2007, the company did not hedge its exposure attributable to changes in commodity prices but may consider such strategies in the future. 82risk factors 11 risk factors risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters" and "item 3. legal proceedings." environmental matters we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $37 million to $76 million. as of september 26, 2008, we believe that the best estimate within this range is approximately $43 million, of which $10 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $33 million is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. in view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 10 employees as of september 26, 2008, we employed approximately 113,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 42,000 are employed in the united states and 71,000 are outside the united states. we have collective bargaining agreements with labor unions covering approximately 19,000 employees and believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. available information tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. investors may read and copy any document that tyco files, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, dc 20549. investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec, from which investors can electronically access tyco's sec filings. our internet website is www.tyco.com . we make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, reports filed pursuant to section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the securities and exchange commission. in addition, we have posted the charters for our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee, and nominating and governance committee, as well as our board governance principles and guide to ethical conduct, on our website under the heading "corporate responsibility governance." these charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. we will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. risks relating to our businesses general economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results can be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain industries in which we operate. for example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial construction, the amount of discretionary consumer and business spending, and the performance of the housing market, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. recent economic weakness has begun to affect our businesses. in particular, weakness in the non-residential construction market as well as deteriorating economic conditions in some of our geographic markets has begun to impact our adt worldwide business. continued weakness in the u.s. or global economies, or in the industries in which we operate, could have a materially negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 we face intense competition in each of our businesses, and competitive challenges from lower cost manufacturers in overseas markets. if we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected. we operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service providers, both domestically and on a global basis. our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from alternative service providers around the world. key components of our competitive position are our ability to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. this requires continuous management focus on reducing costs, maintaining our competitive position and improving efficiency through cost controls, productivity enhancements and regular appraisal of our asset portfolio. if we are unable to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our operating results may be adversely affected. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; develop, acquire and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our products and services by adding innovative features that differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; and develop or acquire, manufacture and bring products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. our ability to develop or acquire new products and services based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. as a result, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance or their obsolescence could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our adt business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business increased over the prior year to an average of 12.9% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2008, as compared to 12.3% for 2007, and 14.2% in 2006. although rates have not increased significantly in the last fiscal year, if attrition rates continue to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if the attrition rates were to rise tyco may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 12 we have significant foreign operations, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in foreign countries. we have significant operations outside of the united states. we currently operate in approximately 60 countries. we generated 52% of our net revenue outside of the united states in 2008. we expect net revenue generated outside of the united states to continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through foreign legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a number of foreign jurisdictions; changes in enacted tax laws; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and fluctuations in equity and revenues due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations or cash flows. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see part ii item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2008 was 52% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the foreign countries where we sell our products and services, as it has recently done, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse 13 effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. this is most pronounced in our electrical and metals segment, where declining copper and steel prices have begun to negatively affect our margins. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges and contracts are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. for example, our board of directors approved several divestitures in 2008, including a subsidiary that makes and sells fire protection products in japan, a european manufacturer of building products for the construction industry, a european manufacturer of public address and acoustic systems and substantially all of our infrastructure services business. any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business and financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. 14 if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. the company's culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular it strives to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. if we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, the company's operations could be adversely affected. in addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. the demand for experienced management in certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified production employees. high turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact the company's operating results. we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. during the annual goodwill impairment testing for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008, the carrying amount of goodwill in the latin america fire protection business, part of our fire protection services segment, exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill. as a result, the company recognized a goodwill impairment of $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. the company believes that its goodwill balance at september 26, 2008 is recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in the factors described above. in light of current economic conditions, additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. the company has certain reporting units which have limited excess of fair value over carrying value. the goodwill balance for reporting units with less than a ten percent excess of fair value over carrying value in the aggregate was approximately $2.4 billion at september 26, 2008. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are named as a defendant in a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, product liability litigation, litigation alleging violations of federal and state securities laws, employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. in october 2004, the u.s. congress enacted legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. such legislation did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. more recently, several proposals have been introduced in the u.s. house of representatives that, if ultimately enacted by the u.s. congress, would limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows by increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance, or requiring us to take corporate actions in response to government initiatives. in addition, various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we are unable to predict the likelihood or final form in which any proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. 16 changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our adt worldwide business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals, and wireline telephone companies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. furthermore, we have been subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. we have reported to the doj and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations. we have also retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to the fcpa, and we periodically provide updates to the sec and doj. we also intend to present our factual findings upon the conclusion of the review. as a result, it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to securities litigation or a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, business prospects or the market value of our stock. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. tyco's global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, tyco obtains or receives information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and foreign international trade laws. when tyco receives information alleging improper activity, its policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting its findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary 17 fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we continue to be subject to a number of lawsuits stemming from the actions of our prior senior management. adverse outcomes of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in 2007, we settled the majority of the legacy securities claims brought against tyco related to the actions of former senior management by contributing our share to a $2.975 billion settlement fund. however, the settlement did not purport to resolve all securities cases, and several cases remain outstanding. these outstanding cases include claims made under the employee retirement income security act, claims made by plaintiffs not included in the class covered by the settlement and claims made by plaintiffs that opted out of the settlement. in connection with some of these lawsuits, we are obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants to the extent required by bermuda law. we do not believe that it is feasible to predict or determine the final outcome or resolution of the unresolved proceedings. an adverse outcome from the unresolved proceedings could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the separation, primarily those relating to shareholder litigation. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to legacy securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation plan or the separation brought by any third party. contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which are allocated 100% to the relevant company. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. we could face product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations. the nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot assure you, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs of approximately $43 million, of which $10 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $33 million is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. we are subject to ongoing governmental investigations that may have an adverse effect on our business. we and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec, the general service administration and other government agencies seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and 19 related controls. some of these investigations stem from the actions of our former senior management, while others result from our ongoing business operations. if we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any u.s. governmental investigations, including violation of certain environmental or export laws, we could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new u.s. governmental contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. if convicted or found liable, we could be subject to fines, penalties, repayments and treble and other damages. any contracts found to be tainted by fraud could be voided by the u.s. government. the u.s. government also reserves the right to prohibit a contractor from receiving new governmental contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct. independently, failure to comply with u.s. laws and regulations related to the export of goods and technology outside the united states could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of our export privileges. at this time, we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with governmental instrumentalities, which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers, or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot predict whether the effects and results of these or other investigations will have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. risks related to our liquidity recent disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we access credit markets to meet our working capital requirements, to service debt obligations, including refinancing of maturing obligations, and to undertake other activities, such as acquiring assets. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our current needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. global credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and continued uncertainty in the credit markets have made financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets to meet our needs. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. these disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slow down in general economic activity that we expect to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse affects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding 20 thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. risks relating to tax matters we have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes that could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis. in connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 for fiscal 2007, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes. for a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see "management's report on internal control over financial reporting" under item 9a, "controls and procedures." a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. during 2007, management's procedures and testing identified errors that, although not material to the consolidated financial statements, led management to conclude that control deficiencies exist related to tax effecting consolidating entries, analysis and reconciliation of taxes receivable and taxes payable in 21 non-u.s. jurisdictions, certain aspects of deferred taxes, and procedures with respect to classification of tax amounts in the consolidated balance sheet. during fiscal 2008, the company completed the first phase of a remediation plan to address these control deficiencies which included performing account reconciliations on income tax accounts globally. as of september 26, 2008, we have determined, however, that the material weakness continues to exist and requires further remediation in the form of process improvements and subsequent assessment. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. while considerable actions have been taken to improve our internal controls in response to the material weakness described above, additional work continues. if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec and the new york stock exchange, including a delisting from the new york stock exchange, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed under fin no. 48 have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to certain prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments, and the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that these adjustments will more-likely-than-not be accepted and, accordingly, has recorded such adjustments in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, during 2008 the company completed proposed amendments to its u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process and the irs review is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 22 if the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, we have obtained opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and tyco electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and tyco electronics common shares distributed to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement that we have entered into with covidien and tyco electronics in connection with the separation, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions are determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or tyco electronics as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, then we, covidien and tyco electronics would be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, covidien or tyco electronics as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing 23 agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the separation because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted after separation in order to preserve for u.s. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution. the distribution of common shares of covidien and tyco electronics to our shareholders may result in corporate level taxable gain to us under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. for this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, covidien or tyco electronics may be able to rebut that presumption. we are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of our common shares within the two years before the distribution. if an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares triggers the application of section 355(e) of the code, we would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, certain subsidiaries of covidien or tyco electronics or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to fail to qualify as tax-free or tax-favored transactions, as the case maybe, including entering into, approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distribution, unless we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. covidien and tyco electronics are subject to similar restrictions under the tax sharing agreement. moreover, the tax sharing agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as tax-favored transactions under the code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties 24 consent to such actions or the responsible party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. for example, we would be responsible for a third party's acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. these restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our shareholders and noteholders. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws applicable to u.s. companies and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2008 was 52% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the foreign countries where we sell our products and services, as it has recently done, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect recalculations of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse 13 effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. this is most pronounced in our electrical and metals segment, where declining copper and steel prices have begun to negatively affect our margins. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we purchase hedges or enter into contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges and contracts are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. for example, our board of directors approved several divestitures in 2008, including a subsidiary that makes and sells fire protection products in japan, a european manufacturer of building products for the construction industry, a european manufacturer of public address and acoustic systems and substantially all of our infrastructure services business. any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business and financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. 14 if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. the company's culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular it strives to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. if we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, the company's operations could be adversely affected. in addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. the demand for experienced management in certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified production employees. high turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact the company's operating results. we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. during the annual goodwill impairment testing for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008, the carrying amount of goodwill in the latin america fire protection business, part of our fire protection services segment, exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill. as a result, the company recognized a goodwill impairment of $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. the company believes that its goodwill balance at september 26, 2008 is recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in the factors described above. in light of current economic conditions, additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. the company has certain reporting units which have limited excess of fair value over carrying value. the goodwill balance for reporting units with less than a ten percent excess of fair value over carrying value in the aggregate was approximately $2.4 billion at september 26, 2008. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are named as a defendant in a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in the ordinary course of business, we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, product liability litigation, litigation alleging violations of federal and state securities laws, employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. in october 2004, the u.s. congress enacted legislation affecting the tax treatment of u.s. companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions. such legislation did not, however, retroactively apply to the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited (a public company that had been located in bermuda since the 1980's with origins dating back to the united kingdom since the early 1900's), as a result of which adt changed its name to tyco international ltd. and became the parent to the tyco group. more recently, several proposals have been introduced in the u.s. house of representatives that, if ultimately enacted by the u.s. congress, would limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows by increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance, or requiring us to take corporate actions in response to government initiatives. in addition, various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to u.s. companies that move their corporate location abroad. the legislative proposals could cover the 1997 acquisition of tyco international ltd. by adt limited. we are unable to predict the likelihood or final form in which any proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, u.s. companies' use of, or relocation to, offshore jurisdictions, including bermuda. as a bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a bermuda company. 16 changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our adt worldwide business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals, and wireline telephone companies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-u.s. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. furthermore, we have been subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. we have reported to the doj and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations. we have also retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to the fcpa, and we periodically provide updates to the sec and doj. we also intend to present our factual findings upon the conclusion of the review. as a result, it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to securities litigation or a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, business prospects or the market value of our stock. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. tyco's global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, tyco obtains or receives information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. tyco's policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and foreign international trade laws. when tyco receives information alleging improper activity, its policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting its findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary 17 fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we continue to be subject to a number of lawsuits stemming from the actions of our prior senior management. adverse outcomes of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in 2007, we settled the majority of the legacy securities claims brought against tyco related to the actions of former senior management by contributing our share to a $2.975 billion settlement fund. however, the settlement did not purport to resolve all securities cases, and several cases remain outstanding. these outstanding cases include claims made under the employee retirement income security act, claims made by plaintiffs not included in the class covered by the settlement and claims made by plaintiffs that opted out of the settlement. in connection with some of these lawsuits, we are obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are also named as defendants to the extent required by bermuda law. we do not believe that it is feasible to predict or determine the final outcome or resolution of the unresolved proceedings. an adverse outcome from the unresolved proceedings could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the separation, primarily those relating to shareholder litigation. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to legacy securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation plan or the separation brought by any third party. contingent and other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which are allocated 100% to the relevant company. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. we could face product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations. the nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot assure you, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we believe that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs of approximately $43 million, of which $10 million is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $33 million is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. we are subject to ongoing governmental investigations that may have an adverse effect on our business. we and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec, the general service administration and other government agencies seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and 19 related controls. some of these investigations stem from the actions of our former senior management, while others result from our ongoing business operations. if we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any u.s. governmental investigations, including violation of certain environmental or export laws, we could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new u.s. governmental contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. if convicted or found liable, we could be subject to fines, penalties, repayments and treble and other damages. any contracts found to be tainted by fraud could be voided by the u.s. government. the u.s. government also reserves the right to prohibit a contractor from receiving new governmental contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct. independently, failure to comply with u.s. laws and regulations related to the export of goods and technology outside the united states could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of our export privileges. at this time, we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with governmental instrumentalities, which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers, or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we cannot predict whether the effects and results of these or other investigations will have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. risks related to our liquidity recent disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we access credit markets to meet our working capital requirements, to service debt obligations, including refinancing of maturing obligations, and to undertake other activities, such as acquiring assets. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our current needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. global credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and continued uncertainty in the credit markets have made financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets to meet our needs. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. these disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slow down in general economic activity that we expect to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse affects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding 20 thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. see "liquidity and capital resources capitalization". material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. risks relating to tax matters we have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes that could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis. in connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 for fiscal 2007, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our accounting for income taxes. for a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see "management's report on internal control over financial reporting" under item 9a, "controls and procedures." a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. during 2007, management's procedures and testing identified errors that, although not material to the consolidated financial statements, led management to conclude that control deficiencies exist related to tax effecting consolidating entries, analysis and reconciliation of taxes receivable and taxes payable in 21 non-u.s. jurisdictions, certain aspects of deferred taxes, and procedures with respect to classification of tax amounts in the consolidated balance sheet. during fiscal 2008, the company completed the first phase of a remediation plan to address these control deficiencies which included performing account reconciliations on income tax accounts globally. as of september 26, 2008, we have determined, however, that the material weakness continues to exist and requires further remediation in the form of process improvements and subsequent assessment. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. while considerable actions have been taken to improve our internal controls in response to the material weakness described above, additional work continues. if we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec and the new york stock exchange, including a delisting from the new york stock exchange, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed under fin no. 48 have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to certain prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments, and the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that these adjustments will more-likely-than-not be accepted and, accordingly, has recorded such adjustments in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, during 2008 the company completed proposed amendments to its u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process and the irs review is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 22 if the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, we have obtained opinions from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. the private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and tyco electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and tyco electronics common shares distributed to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. in addition, under the terms of the tax sharing agreement that we have entered into with covidien and tyco electronics in connection with the separation, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions are determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or tyco electronics as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, then we, covidien and tyco electronics would be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, covidien or tyco electronics as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing 23 agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the separation because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted after separation in order to preserve for u.s. federal income tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution. the distribution of common shares of covidien and tyco electronics to our shareholders may result in corporate level taxable gain to us under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. for this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares within two years after the distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, covidien or tyco electronics may be able to rebut that presumption. we are not aware of any such acquisitions or issuances of our common shares within the two years before the distribution. if an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, covidien's common shares or tyco electronics' common shares triggers the application of section 355(e) of the code, we would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, certain subsidiaries of covidien or tyco electronics or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application of section 355(e) of the code. under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to fail to qualify as tax-free or tax-favored transactions, as the case maybe, including entering into, approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distribution, unless we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may be, is acceptable to the parties. covidien and tyco electronics are subject to similar restrictions under the tax sharing agreement. moreover, the tax sharing agreement generally provides that a party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as tax-favored transactions under the code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties 24 consent to such actions or the responsible party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above. for example, we would be responsible for a third party's acquisition of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. these restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our shareholders and noteholders. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us in bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any u.s. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. as a bermuda company, tyco is governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws applicable to u.s. companies and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification. likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a bermuda company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may only exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company in limited circumstances. under bermuda law, a company may also agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties our operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world aggregating approximately 35 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately 15 million square feet are owned and approximately 20 million square feet are leased. these facilities house manufacturing, distribution and warehousing operations, as well as sales and marketing, engineering and administrative offices. adt worldwide operates through a network of offices and service facilities located in north america, central america, south america, europe, the middle east, the asia-pacific region and south africa. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 1 million square feet are owned and 5 million square feet are leased. flow control has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 10 million square feet, of which 6 million square feet are owned and 4 million square feet are leased. fire protection services operates through a network of offices located in north america, central america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 5 million square feet, of which 1 million square feet are owned and 4 million square feet are leased. 25 electrical and metal products has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 5 million square feet are owned and 1 million square feet are leased. safety products operates through a network of offices located in north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. our safety products manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers are located in north america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 5 million square feet, of which 2 million square feet are owned and 3 million square feet are leased. in the opinion of management, our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. we do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. see note 16 to consolidated financial statements for a description of our lease obligations. item 3. legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including product liability matters, environmental matters, patent infringement claims, employment disputes, disputes on agreements and other commercial disputes. in connection with the separation, we entered into a liability sharing agreement regarding certain legal actions that were pending against tyco prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics are jointly and severally liable for the full amount of any judgments resulting from the actions subject to the agreement, which generally are legacy matters that are not specific to the business operations of any of the companies (including erisa, fcpa and securities claims). the agreement also provides that we will be responsible for 27%, covidien 42% and tyco electronics 31% of payments to resolve these matters, with costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingencies being shared equally among the parties. in addition, under the agreement, we will manage and control all the legal matters related to assumed contingent liabilities as described in the separation and distribution agreement, including the defense or settlement thereof, subject to certain limitations. class action settlement and legacy securities matters as previously reported, in june 2007 the company settled 32 purported securities class action lawsuits arising from actions alleged to have been taken by prior management for $2.975 billion. of this amount, the company contributed $803 million, representing its share under the separation and distribution agreement to a $2.975 billion escrow account established in connection with the settlement. all legal contingencies that could have affected the final order approving the settlement expired on february 21, 2008, and the claims administrator is currently processing claims. the settlement did not purport to resolve all securities cases, and the outstanding cases are discussed below. it is not possible to predict the final outcome or to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of the asserted or unasserted claims from individuals that have opted-out or from any other legacy securities litigation. should any of these cases result in an adverse judgment or be settled for a significant amount, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. pursuant to the terms of the settlement, l. dennis kozlowski, mark h. swartz and frank e. walsh, jr., were excluded as settling defendants, and the class agreed to assign to tyco all of their claims against these defendants. in exchange, tyco has agreed to pay the certified class, in addition to the $2.975 billion described above, 50% of any net recovery against these defendants. 26 proceedings not covered by the settlement as previously reported in our periodic filings, a number of lawsuits related to alleged misconduct of our former management have been filed against tyco. because the plaintiffs in these matters were not similarly situated to the members of the class settlement described above, these matters were not included in that settlement. the plaintiffs in these matters assert various claims based primarily on alleged violations of federal securities laws, fraud and negligence. these matters consist of hess v. tyco international ltd., et al. an action related to tyco's indirect purchase of progressive angioplasty systems, inc. in 1998, stumpf v. tyco international ltd., an action related to the initial public offering of tycom in 2000, which is further described below , sciallo v. tyco international ltd., et al., an action related to tyco's acquisition of u.s. surgical in 1998, jasin v. tyco international ltd., et al., an action brought by a pro se plaintiff, and hall v. kozlowski, et al, an action brought by a pro se plaintiff relating to the plaintiff's employment, 401(k), pension plans and ownership of tyco common stock. in november 2008, the company agreed to settle the sciallo matter and the hess matter for approximately $2 million and $16 million, respectively. of these amounts, the company is responsible for an aggregate of approximately $5 million under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement. each of the other matters described above is in the pre-trial stages of litigation and tyco intends to vigorously defend each matter. as previously reported in our periodic filings, stumpf v. tyco international ltd. is a class action lawsuit that asserts complaints against tyco, among others, based on alleged violations of the disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. the matter arises from tyco's july 2000 initial public offering of common stock of tycom inc, and alleges that the tycom registration statement and prospectus relating to the sale of common stock were inaccurate, misleading and failed to disclose facts necessary to make the registration statement and prospectus not misleading. the complaint further alleges the defendants violated securities laws by making materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, executive compensation, tycom's business prospects and tyco's and tycom's finances. the matter is currently in the pre-trial stages of litigation and tyco intends to vigorously defend this matter. erisa litigation as previously reported in our periodic filings, tyco and certain of our current and former employees, officers and directors, have been named as defendants in eight class actions brought under the employee retirement income security act ("erisa"). two of the actions were filed in the united states district court for the district of new hampshire and the six remaining actions were transferred to that court by the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation. all eight actions have been consolidated in the district court in new hampshire. the consolidated complaint purports to bring claims on behalf of our retirement savings and investment plans and the participants therein and alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties under erisa by negligently misrepresenting and negligently failing to disclose material information concerning, among other things, the following: related-party transactions and executive compensation; our mergers and acquisitions and the accounting therefor, as well as allegedly undisclosed acquisitions; and misstatements of our financial results. the complaint also asserts that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by allowing the plans to invest in our shares when it was not a prudent investment. the complaints seek recovery of alleged plan losses arising from alleged breaches of fiduciary duties. on august 15, 2006, the court entered an order certifying a class "consisting of all participants in the plans for whose individual accounts the plans purchased and/or held shares of tyco stock fund at any time from august 12, 1998 to july 25, 2002." this matter remains in the pre-trial stages of litigation and tyco intends to vigorously defend it. 27 opt-out claims as of the opt-out deadline for the securities class-action settlement described above, tyco had received opt-out notices from individuals and entities totaling approximately 4% of the shares owned by the class members subject to the settlement. a number of these individuals and entities have filed claims separately against tyco, and as of september 26, 2008, lawsuits had been filed against tyco by the following opt-out claimants: franklin mutual advisers, llc; the teachers retirement system of texas, et al.; blackrock global allocation fund, inc., et al.; nuveen balanced municipal and stock fund, et al.; federated american leaders fund, inc. et al.; and the state treasurer of the state of michigan, as custodian of the michigan public school employees retirement system, state employees' retirement system, michigan state police retirement system and michigan judges retirement system. any judgments resulting from such claims or from claims that are filed in the future would not reduce the $2.975 billion settlement amount described above. generally, the claims asserted by these plaintiffs include claims similar to those asserted by the settling defendants; namely, violations of the disclosure provisions of federal securities laws. tyco intends to vigorously defend the litigation resulting from opt-out claims. tyco litigation against former senior management tyco international ltd. v. l. dennis kozlowski and tyco international ltd. v. mark h. swartz . as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed civil complaints against both dennis kozlowski, our former chairman and chief executive officer, and mark h. swartz, our former chief financial officer, for breach of fiduciary duty and other conduct, and of all remuneration, including restricted and unrestricted shares and options, obtained by them during the course of this conduct. discovery in these cases is proceeding. in connection with our civil complaints against mr. kozlowski, mr. swartz, and scott stevenson, our former chief tax officer, each of these individuals has made claims against the company seeking amounts allegedly due in connection with the former executives' compensation and retention arrangements and under erisa. tyco intends to vigorously defend these actions and does not believe that the ultimate outcome of these matters will have a material adverse affect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in connection with the criminal trials for mr. kozlowski and mr. swartz, they were ordered to pay restitution, jointly and severally, to tyco of $134 million. on january 2, 2007, the new york county district attorney's office released to tyco, on behalf of mr. kozlowski, $98 million in restitution and on october 27, 2007, mr. swartz paid restitution to the company in the amount of $38 million. these payments were made pending the outcome of the appeal of their criminal convictions, both of which were denied by the appeals division of the new york state supreme court on november 15, 2007. their further appeal to the new york state court of appeals was denied in october 2008. tyco international ltd. v. l. dennis kozlowski and mark h. swartz. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against our former chairman and chief executive officer and former chief financial officer and director pursuant to section 16(b) of the securities and exchange act of 1934 for disgorgement of short-swing profits from prohibited transactions in our common shares believed to exceed $40 million. the action seeks disgorgement of profits, interest, attorney's fees and costs. discovery in this case is proceeding. tyco international ltd. v. frank e. walsh, jr. as previously reported in our periodic filings, we filed a civil complaint against frank e. walsh, jr., a former director, for breach of fiduciary duty and related wrongful conduct involving receipt by mr. walsh of a $20 million payment in connection with our 2001 acquisition of the cit group, inc. the action alleges causes of action for restitution, breach of fiduciary duty and inducing breach of fiduciary duty, conversion, unjust enrichment, and a constructive trust, and seeks recovery for all of the losses suffered by us as a result of the defendant director's conduct. on december 17, 2002, mr. walsh paid $20 million in restitution to tyco, as a result of a plea bargain agreement with the new york county district attorney. mr. walsh has made claims against tyco alleging that tyco is required to indemnify him for his defense costs arising from his role as a tyco director. our claims against mr. walsh and mr. walsh's claims against tyco are still pending. discovery in this case is proceeding. 28 erisa partial withdrawal liability assessment and demand on june 8, 2007, simplexgrinnell received a notice alleging that it had partially withdrawn from the national automatic sprinkler industry pension fund (the "fund"). under title iv of erisa, if the fund can prove that an employer completely or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan such as the fund, the employer is liable for withdrawal liability equal to its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits. the alleged withdrawal results from a 1994 labor dispute between grinnell fire protection systems, simplexgrinnell's predecessor, and road sprinkler fitters local union no. 669. erisa requires that payment of withdrawal liability be made in full or in quarterly installments commencing upon receipt of a liability assessment from the plan. a plan's assessment of withdrawal liability generally may be challenged only in arbitration, and erisa requires that quarterly payments must continue to be made during the pendency of the arbitration. if the employer prevails in arbitration (and any subsequent court appeals), its quarterly withdrawal liability payments are refunded with interest. the fund's total withdrawal liability assessment against simplexgrinnell is approximately $25 million. the quarterly withdrawal liability payments are $1.1 million, $6.6 million of which have been paid to date. while the ultimate outcome is uncertain, simplexgrinnell believes that it has strong arguments that no withdrawal liability is owed to the fund, and it plans to vigorously defend against the fund's withdrawal liability assessment. the matter is currently in arbitration. the company has made no provision for this contingency and believes that its quarterly payments are recoverable. subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities and related litigation as previously reported in our periodic filings, we and others have received various subpoenas and requests from the sec, the u.s. department of labor, state departments of labor, the general service administration and others seeking the production of voluminous documents in connection with various investigations into our governance, management, operations, accounting and related controls. we are cooperating with these investigations and are complying with these requests. in 2002, certain of our employees received subpoenas from the sec's division of enforcement seeking testimony related to past accounting practices for dealer connect fees that adt had charged to its authorized dealers upon purchasing customer accounts. the investigation related to accounting practices employed by our former management, which were discontinued in 2003. although we settled with the sec in 2006, a number of former dealers and related parties have filed lawsuits against us alleging breach of contract and other claims related to adt's decision to terminate certain authorized dealers in 2002 and 2003. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these lawsuits, we do not believe these claims will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. as previously reported in our periodic filings, in november 2004, we received an order from the sec to report facts and circumstances involving our participation, if any, in the united nations oil for food program governing sales of iraqi oil. on january 10, 2005 and november 8, 2005, we responded to the order and provided information concerning transactions under the united nations oil for food program. on january 31, 2006, we received a subpoena from the sec to produce additional documents and information related to the participation of three of our businesses in the united nations oil for food program. the sec notified us on june 7, 2006 that it was not recommending any enforcement action against tyco in connection with its investigation of the united nations oil for food program. subsequently, we discovered additional product sales that may have been responsive to the sec's order, investigated these transactions and presented the results of our investigation to the sec staff. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of this matter, we do not believe this discovery will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 29 environmental matters tyco is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to known environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. as of september 26, 2008, tyco concluded that it was probable that it would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $37 million to $76 million. as of september 26, 2008, tyco concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $43 million, of which $10 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $33 million is included in other liabilities on tyco's consolidated balance sheet. in view of the company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters, the company believes that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. asbestos matters as previously reported in its periodic filings, tyco and some of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. the complaints generally seek monetary damages for personal injury or bodily injury resulting from alleged exposure to products containing asbestos. the company will continue to vigorously defend the lawsuits that have been filed against it and its subsidiaries, but cannot predict whether it will be successful in those cases that proceed to trial. when appropriate, the company settles claims. although in the past the total amount paid in any year to settle and defend all asbestos claims has been immaterial, tyco has recently experienced an increase in the number of lawsuits that have proceeded to trial. of the lawsuits that proceeded to trial in 2008, tyco has won or settled all but one case, with that one case returning an adverse jury verdict for approximately $7.7 million, which included both compensatory and punitive damages. tyco has filed post-trial motions seeking to overturn the verdict or order a new trial, and believes that the verdict will ultimately be overturned. as of september 26, 2008 there were approximately 4,600 asbestos liability cases pending against the company and its subsidiaries. income tax matters during the third quarter of 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 through 2000 and issued anticipated revenue agents' reports ("rars") which reflect the irs' determination of proposed tax adjustments for the periods under audit. the rars propose tax audit adjustments to certain of the company's previously filed tax return positions. the company agreed with the irs on adjustments totaling $498 million, with an estimated cash impact to the company of $458 million, and during the third quarter of 2007, the company paid $458 million, of which $163 million related to the company's discontinued operations. the company appealed other proposed tax audit adjustments totaling approximately $1 billion relating to tyco, covidien and tyco electronics, and, as audit managing party as specified in the tax sharing agreement, the company intends to vigorously defend its prior filed tax return positions. during the second quarter of 2008, the irs issued additional rars asserting a withholding tax liability of approximately $106 million associated with the prior proposed tax adjustments related to tyco, covidien and tyco electronics for the 1997 to 2000 period. the withholding tax amount asserted against tyco is immaterial. during the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the company reached an agreement with the irs appeals team to work towards timely resolution of all unagreed issues related to this time period. the company, as auditing managing party as specified in the tax sharing agreement, intends to vigorously defend its prior filed tax return positions and determined that no adjustment is required to the company's guarantees and indemnifications liability recorded in conjunction with the tax sharing agreement as discussed in "guarantees" within management's discussion and analysis of 30 financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the irs is auditing the prior tax returns of the company, which include legal entities of tyco, covidien and tyco electronics for the 2001 to 2004 period. the irs has not issued any rars for this period. the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in a material impact to the company's financial position, results of operations, cash flows or the effective tax rate in future reporting periods. the irs proposed civil fraud penalties against a prior subsidiary that was distributed to tyco electronics arising from alleged actions of former executives in connection with intercompany transfers of stock of simplex technologies in 1998 and 1999. based on statutory guidelines, we estimate the proposed penalties could range between $30 million and $50 million. the company, as audit managing party as specified in the tax sharing agreement, intends to vigorously oppose the assertion of such penalties against tyco electronics, in part, because beginning in 2003 the company discovered, investigated and reported the conduct at issue to the irs and fully cooperated in the criminal prosecution of the company's former chief tax officer on a charge of willful filing of a false tax return. this is a pre-separation shared tax matter under the tax sharing agreement. compliance matters as previously reported in our periodic filings, we have received and responded to various allegations and other information that certain improper payments were made by our subsidiaries in recent years. as previously reported, we have been informed that two subsidiaries in our flow control business in italy have been named in a request for criminal charges filed by the milan public prosecutor's office. we have reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations. we also informed the doj and the sec that we retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), that we would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies, and that we would present our factual findings upon conclusion of the baseline review. we have and will continue to communicate with the doj and sec to provide updates on the baseline review and follow-up investigations, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper payments identified by us in the course of our ongoing compliance activities. covidien and tyco electronics agreed, in connection with the separation, to cooperate with the company in its response to these allegations. to date, the baseline review has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters and other allegations reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of these matters. however, it is possible that we may be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. any judgment required to be paid or settlement or other cost incurred by tyco in connection with the fcpa investigations would be subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, which assigned liabilities primarily related to the former healthcare and electronics businesses of tyco to covidien or tyco electronics, respectively, and provides that tyco will retain liabilities primarily related to its continuing operations. any liabilities not primarily related to a particular segment will be shared equally among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics. the german federal cartel office ("fco") charged in early 2007 that certain german subsidiaries in tyco's flow control business have engaged in anti-competitive practices, in particular with regard to its hydrant, valve, street box and fittings business. tyco investigated this matter and determined that the conduct may have violated german anti-trust-law. tyco is cooperating with the fco in its investigation of this violation. tyco cannot estimate the range of potential loss that may result from this violation. it is possible that the company may be subject to civil or criminal 31 proceedings and may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. other matters fitzpatrick contractors limited v. tyco fire and integrated solutions (uk) ltd. on july 18, 2007, fitzpatrick contractors limited ("fcl") commenced an action against tyco fire and integrated solutions (uk) ltd. in the high court of justice, queen bench division, technology and construction court, united kingdom, alleging that tyco entered into a binding contract in 2002 for the design, manufacture and installation of mechanical and electrical works for the refurbishment of a portion of london transport's blackwell tunnel. fcl seeks damages for breach of contract in the amount of approximately $38 million, and we have reserved our best estimate of probable loss related to this matter. tyco intends to defend this action vigorously. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of this dispute, tyco does not believe this action will have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows beyond what has been accrued for. trial is expected to begin in april 2009. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders none. 32 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the number of registered holders of tyco's common shares at november 13, 2008 was 28,365. tyco common shares are listed and traded on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") and the bermuda stock exchange under the symbol "tyc." the following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of tyco common shares as reported by the nyse, and the dividends declared on tyco common shares, for the quarterly periods presented below. in connection with the separation, effective june 29, 2007, the company effected a reverse stock split of tyco's common shares, at a split ratio of one for four. shareholder approval for the reverse stock split was obtained at the special general meeting of shareholders on march 8, 2007. market price range was adjusted for the separation. dividends per common share reflect the reverse stock split only. year ended september 26, 2008 year ended september 28, 2007 market price range market price range dividends declared per common share dividends declared per common share quarter high low high low first $ 46.66 $ 37.88 $ 0.15 $ 48.69 $ 43.81 $ 0.40 second 44.85 33.72 0.15 52.09 46.57 0.40 third 47.41 40.08 0.15 53.83 49.88 0.80 fourth 45.15 36.37 0.20 53.36 40.59 $ 0.65 $ 1.60 dividend policy on september 9, 2008, tyco's board of directors approved a 33% increase in the company's quarterly dividend from $0.15 to $0.20 per share payable in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. the 2007 dividend per common share in the above table represents that of tyco pre-separation, which included covidien and tyco electronics. the timing, declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common shares, however, falls within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including the statutory requirements of bermuda law, our financial condition and results of operations, the capital requirements of our businesses, industry practice and any other factors the board of directors deems relevant. additionally, we may from time to time enter into financing agreements that contain financial covenants and restrictions, some of which may limit the ability of tyco to pay dividends. 33 performance graph set forth below is a graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on tyco's common shares against the cumulative return on the s&amp;p 500 index and the dow jones industrial diversified index, assuming investment of $100 on september 30, 2003, including the reinvestment of dividends. the graph shows the cumulative total return as of the fiscal years ended september 30, 2004, 2005, september 29, 2006, september 28, 2007, and september 26, 2008. 9/03 9/04 9/05 9/06 9/07 9/08 tyco international ltd. $ 100.00 $ 150.33 $ 138.29 $ 140.49 $ 144.25 $ 119.61 s&amp;p 500 100.00 113.87 127.82 141.62 164.90 128.66 dow jones industrial diversified 100.00 123.25 126.18 135.19 167.65 112.36 34 equity compensation plan information the following table provides information as of september 26, 2008 with respect to tyco's common shares issuable under its equity compensation plans: equity compensation plan plan category number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options (a) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options (b) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) equity compensation plans approved by security holders: 2004 stock and incentive plan (1) 17,439,631 $ 50.44 34,090,258 ltip i plan (2) 4,378,321 37.41 espp (3) 2,934,361 21,817,952 37,024,619 equity compensation plans not approved by security holders: ltip ii plan (4) 6,488,958 $ 53.72 saye (5) 612,319 27.65 6,999,231 7,101,277 6,999,231 total 28,919,229 44,023,850 (1) the tyco international ltd. 2004 stock and incentive plan provides for the award of stock options, restricted shares and other equity and equity-based awards to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amount shown under shares outstanding includes 145,944 dsu grants and dividend equivalents earned on each dsu account, 13,308,391 shares to be issued upon exercise of options, 349,883 restricted shares, 3,152,363 restricted stock units and 483,050 performance share units representing target payout. amount shown under shares available reflects the aggregate shares available under ltip, ltip ii and the 2004 stock and incentive plan. shares available under ltip and ltip ii in march 2004 were rolled into the 2004 stock and incentive plan as of the inception of the plan. (2) the tyco international ltd. long term incentive plan ("ltip") allows for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amounts shown exclude 161,520 outstanding stock options assumed in connection with acquisitions at a weighted-average exercise price of $92.15. no additional options may be granted under those assumed plans. amount shown includes 3,507,105 shares to be issued upon exercise of options, and 871,216 dsu grants and dividend equivalents earned on each dsu account. effective as of inception of the 2004 stock and incentive plan, no additional grants may be made under the ltip or the ltip ii. (3) this table includes 2,934,361 shares available for future issuance under the tyco employee stock purchase plan ("espp"), which represents the number of remaining shares registered for issuance under this plan. all of the shares delivered to participants under the espp are purchased in the open market. (4) under the terms of the 2004 stock and incentive plan, adopted in march 2004, no additional options, equity or equity-based grants will be made under the ltip or the ltip ii. the shares granted under the ltip will be issued at vesting under the 2004 stock and incentive plan. ltip ii allows for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to employees who are not officers of tyco. under this plan, non-officer employees or former employees of tyco or a subsidiary could receive: (i) options to purchase tyco common shares; (ii) stock appreciation rights; (iii) awards payable in cash, common shares, other securities or other property, based on the achievement of performance goals; (iv) dividend equivalents, consisting of a right to receive payments equivalent to dividends declared on tyco common shares; and (v) other stock-based awards as determined by the compensation and human resources committee. the exercise price of options and stock appreciation rights would generally be fair market value on the date of grant, but could be lower in certain circumstances. no individual could receive awards for more than 12,000,000 shares (or 3,000,000 shares on a post-reverse stock split basis) in any calendar year. terms and conditions of awards were determined by the committee. awards could be deferred, and could be payable in any form the committee determined, including cash, tyco common shares, other securities or other property. the committee may modify awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring 35 events, including a change of control. the shares granted under the ltip ii will be issued at vesting under the 2004 stock and incentive plan. (5) the tyco international ltd. uk savings related share option plan ("saye") is a uk inland revenue approved plan for uk employees pursuant to which employees may be granted options to purchase shares at the end of three years of service at a 15% discount off the market price at time of grant. employees make monthly contributions that are, at the election of the employee, used for the purchase price or returned to the employee. the total amount of shares that may be purchased at the end of the three years of service is equal to the total of the monthly contributions, plus a tax-free bonus amount equal to a multiple of the aggregate amount of monthly contributions, divided by the option price. an option will generally be exercisable only during the period of six months following the three-year period. the plan is administered by the company's international benefits oversight committee, appointed by the compensation and human resources committee. the international benefits oversight committee, among other things, determines when to grant options and sets the option price. issuer purchases of equity securities period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under publicly announced plans or programs 6/28/08 7/25/08 4,783,871 $ 39.76 4,779,281 7/26/08 8/29/08 8/30/08 9/26/08 2,519,000 $ 39.68 2,519,000 $ 900,000,000 the transactions described in the table above primarily represent the repurchase of common shares on the nyse as part of the $1.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in september 2007 (2007 share repurchase program) along with the additional $1.0 billion program approved in july 2008 (2008 share repurchase program). the average price paid per share is calculated by dividing the total cash paid for the shares by the total number of shares repurchased. approximately $900 million remained outstanding under the 2008 share repurchase program at september 26, 2008. the company, through an affiliate, also acquires shares from certain employees in order to satisfy employee tax withholding requirements in connection with the vesting of restricted shares. approximately 4,590 shares were acquired in these vesting-related transactions outside of the share repurchase program during the quarter ended september 26, 2008. 36 item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of tyco. this data is derived from tyco's consolidated financial statements for the five years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006, september 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. this selected financial data should be read in conjunction with tyco's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of this annual report titled item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 2008 (1) 2007 (2) 2006 (3) 2005 (4) 2004 (5) (in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of operations data: net revenue $ 20,199 $ 18,477 $ 17,066 $ 16,385 $ 15,770 income (loss) from continuing operations 1,095 (2,524 ) 817 573 334 net income (loss) 1,553 (1,742 ) 3,590 3,094 2,822 basic earnings per share: income (loss) from continuing operations 2.26 (5.10 ) 1.63 1.14 0.67 net income (loss) 3.21 (3.52 ) 7.14 6.15 5.64 diluted earnings per share: income (loss) from continuing operations 2.25 (5.10 ) 1.59 1.11 0.66 net income (loss) 3.19 (3.52 ) 6.95 5.85 5.60 cash dividends per share (6) 0.65 1.60 1.60 1.25 0.20 consolidated balance sheets data (end of period) (7) : total assets $ 28,804 $ 32,815 $ 63,011 $ 62,465 $ 63,718 long-term debt 3,709 4,082 8,858 10,077 13,917 shareholders' equity 15,494 15,624 35,387 32,619 30,399 (1) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 26, 2008 includes a class action settlement credit, net of $10 million, a $9 million goodwill impairment charge, $4 million of separation costs, restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $248 million, $42 million of incremental stock option charges required under statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," and a $258 million loss on extinguishment of debt related to the consent solicitation and exchange offers and termination of the bridge loan facility. net income also includes $458 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (2) loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 28, 2007 includes a class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion, $105 million of separation costs, a $46 million goodwill impairment charge related to the reorganization to a new management and segment reporting structure, restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $210 million, $120 million of incremental stock option charges required under statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 123r, " share-based payment ," a $259 million loss related to the early retirement of debt and $95 million of tax charges related to the separation primarily for the write-off of deferred tax assets that will no longer be realizable. net loss also includes $782 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (3) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 29, 2006 includes a charge of $100 million related to the voluntary replacement program, which is included in cost of sales. also included are $49 million of separation costs, restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $15 million, $84 million of incremental stock option charges required under sfas no. 123r, $72 million of income related to a settlement with a former executive and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. net income includes $2,787 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $14 million loss, net of income taxes, related to the cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the adoption of financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143 ". (4) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2005 includes restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $41 million, a $70 million charge related to certain former executives' employment, a $50 million charge related to an sec enforcement action, a loss of $405 million related to the retirement of debt as well as $109 million of income related to a court-ordered restitution award. net income also includes $2,500 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $21 million gain, net of income taxes, related to a cumulative 37 effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the change in measurement date for pension and postretirement benefit plans. (5) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2004 includes a charge of $59 million related to divestitures, net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $275 million, and a loss of $113 million related to the retirement of debt. net income also includes a $2,488 million loss, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (6) cash dividends per share for the years ended 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 represent that of tyco pre-separation, which included covidien and tyco electronics. on september 9, 2008 tyco's board of directors approved a quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of $0.20 per share, which was paid on on november 3, 2008 to shareholders of record on october 1, 2008. on september 13, 2007 tyco's board of directors approved a quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of $0.15 per share payable on november 1, 2007 to shareholders of record of tyco international ltd. post separation on october 1, 2007. on december 9, 2004, the board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on the company's common shares from $0.05 to $0.40 per share. as a result, in 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per common share in the first quarter of 2005 and $0.40 per common share thereafter. prior to 2005, tyco paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per common share for all periods presented. (7) the decrease in total assets, long-term debt and shareholders' equity in 2007 is primarily related to the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics. 38 item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the selected financial data and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the headings "risk factors" and "forward-looking information." introduction the consolidated financial statements include the consolidated results of tyco international ltd., a company organized under the laws of bermuda, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as "we," the "company" or "tyco") and have been prepared in united states dollars, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). the company operates in the following business segments: adt worldwide designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security systems for residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. flow control designs, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes, fittings, valve automation and heat tracing products for the water and wastewater markets, the oil, gas and other energy markets along with general process industries. fire protection services designs, sells, installs and services fire detection and fire suppression systems for commercial, industrial and governmental customers. electrical and metal products designs, manufactures and sells galvanized steel tubing, armored wire and cable and other metal products for non-residential construction, electrical, fire and safety and mechanical customers. safety products designs, manufactures and sells fire protection, security and life safety products, including fire suppression products, breathing apparatus, intrusion security, access control and video management systems. in addition, safety products manufactures products installed and serviced by adt worldwide and fire protection services. we also provide general corporate services to our segments and these costs are reported as corporate and other. references to the segment data are to the company's continuing operations. prior period amounts have been reclassified to exclude the results of discontinued operations. overview and outlook fiscal year 2008 was a year of progress for tyco, as revenue increased by 9% and income from continuing operations significantly improved compared to 2007. we also made significant progress in executing our business strategies. looking forward to fiscal 2009, like most businesses, we expect market conditions to negatively affect our results. first, because over 50% of our revenue is generated outside of the u.s., the recent significant appreciation of the u.s. dollar against most major currencies could negatively impact our revenue in 2009. specifically, the value of the local currencies used in our non-u.s. operations has declined relative to the u.s. dollar by approximately 20%, mostly during the fourth fiscal quarter and into october of 2008. if exchange rates remained at these levels, our non-u.s. revenue would likely decline by a similar magnitude in fiscal 2009. second, we expect the operating margins in our electrical and metals segment to decline in 2009 as a result of declining steel and 39 copper prices. as noted in our critical accounting policies, we account for our inventory on a first-in, first-out basis. as a result, in a declining price environment like the one we are in today, operating margins are likely to contract as higher priced inventory is processed and sold at lower prices. third, we have recently seen a decline in commercial construction activity, both in the united kingdom and the u.s. we expect continued weakness in the commercial construction market to negatively impact our results in the adt worldwide segment. operationally, in 2009, we expect to continue our initiatives to improve our efficiency, manage our working capital effectively, refine our portfolio and prudently allocate our capital. we expect internal investments to fund growth and productivity in our businesses to continue to be our first priority. as in prior years, we expect to remain active in making bolt-on acquisitions as we continually assess the strategic fit and value of businesses that have potential for success within our existing framework. during 2008, our adt worldwide segment acquired firstservice security to strengthen its systems integration capabilities. in addition, during 2008, adt acquired two sensormatic franchisees: winner security services llc and sensormatic security corp. at the same time that we selectively pursue acquisitions, we will consider divestitures where businesses do not align with our long term strategy. in fiscal 2008, as part of our portfolio refinement efforts, we sold a subsidiary that makes and sells fire protection products in japan, a european manufacturer of building products for the construction industry, a european manufacturer of public address and acoustic systems, and substantially all of our infrastructure services business. these divestitures resulted in cash proceeds of approximately $1.0 billion. the results of these businesses are included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. in addition to using cash flow to fund internal investments and make selective acquisitions, we expect to have excess cash to return to our shareholders. during 2008, we completed the $1.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in september 2007, which resulted in the purchase of approximately 5% of our outstanding shares during the program. in addition, during 2008, we paid dividends of $292 million to shareholders, and on september 9, 2008 our board of directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend on our common shares to $0.20 per share from $0.15 per share, which was paid on november 3, 2008 to shareholders of record on october 1, 2008. on july 10, 2008, our board of directors approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program, which we intend to use to repurchase additional shares depending on credit market conditions, macroeconomic factors and our expectations regarding future cash flows. finally, we continue to focus on operational execution to drive earnings growth. to further improve operating efficiency, during the first quarter of 2007, we launched a restructuring program across all of our segments, including the corporate organization, designed to streamline some of our businesses and reduce our operational footprint. since the inception of this program through the end of fiscal 2008, we have incurred charges of approximately $395 million. we have identified additional opportunities for cost savings from restructuring activities in fiscal 2009 and expect to incur restructuring charges of approximately $50 million in fiscal 2009. we believe this restructuring activity will strengthen our competitive position over the long term. legal settlements in connection with the settlement of litigation related to our outstanding public debt, on june 3, 2008 we, along with our finance subsidiary tifsa, tyco international finance s.a. ("tifsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company and successor company to tyco international group s.a. ("tigsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company organized under the laws of luxembourg, consummated consent solicitations and exchange offers related to certain series of debt issued under the company's consent payments totaling $250 million, and we recorded a $222 million charge to other expense, net as a loss on extinguishment of debt. we also terminated our unsecured bridge loan facility entered into on november 27, 2007 in connection with the settlement of the indenture trustee 40 litigation and recorded a $36 million charge to other expense to write-off unamortized debt issuance costs. during the third quarter of 2008, the company signed a definitive agreement with the plaintiff to settle the lawsuit entitled new jersey v. tyco international ltd., et al . in connection with the settlement, the company made a payment of $73.25 million to the plaintiffs on june 2, 2008. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the company's share of the settlement amount was approximately $20 million, with covidien and tyco electronics responsible for approximately $30 million and $23 million, respectively. the company recorded the settlement and related receivable from each of covidien and tyco electronics for their respective shares of the settlement amount in the second quarter of 2008 resulting in a net charge to selling, general and administrative expenses for its share of the settlement of approximately $20 million. also in the third quarter of 2008, the company settled the lawsuit entitled ballard v. tyco international ltd. pursuant to the settlement, the company made a payment of $36 million to the plaintiffs, which was subject to the sharing formula contained in the separation and distribution agreement and resulted in the company recording a net charge to selling, general and administrative expenses of approximately $10 million and recording receivables from tyco electronics and covidien of approximately $11 million and $15 million, respectively, in the third quarter. also in the third quarter of 2008, the company settled the matter entitled the bank of new york v. tyco international group s.a. , a lawsuit related to the separation brought by the indenture trustee of certain of tyco's public debt. in connection with the settlement, tyco exchanged approximately $422 million principal amount of notes due 2028 and $707 million principal amount of notes due 2029 for an equal principal amount of notes due 2019 and 2021, respectively. the terms of the exchange notes are substantially the same as the terms of the notes for which they were exchanged. in addition, each series of notes issued under tyco's indentures dated june 9, 1998 and december 31, 2003 (including the exchange notes) were amended to provide noteholders with the right to require tyco to repurchase their notes for a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase, in the event that a ratings downgrade occurs in connection with certain change of control transactions. also in the third quarter of 2008, the company settled the matter entitled sensormatic security corp. v. sensormatic electronics corp., adt security services, inc. and wallace computer services, inc. in connection with its purchase of the sensormatic franchisee's maryland, virginia and district of columbia franchise. as part of the settlement and the franchise acquisition, the company paid a total of approximately $86 million to the franchisee which includes $20 million for the reacquisition of franchise rights that were deemed unfavorable to the company when compared to pricing for current market transactions for similar arrangements and $6 million related to a legal settlement. in the second quarter of 2008, the company settled a contract dispute arising under its former infrastructure services business relating to the city of phoenix's 91 st avenue wastewater treatment plant. the settlement included a general release of all claims by each party to the litigation without any party making any payment to any other party. in connection with the settlement, the company assessed its assets under the original contract with the city of phoenix and concluded the assets were no longer recoverable, resulting in a $51 million charge to discontinued operations in the second quarter of 2008. in 2007, the company settled 32 purported securities class action lawsuits arising from actions alleged to have been taken by prior management for $2.975 billion. of this amount, the company contributed $803 million, representing its share under the separation and distribution agreement, to a $2.975 billion escrow account established in connection with the settlement. all legal contingencies that could have affected the final order approving the settlement expired on february 21, 2008, and the claims administrator is currently processing claims. the settlement did not purport to resolve all securities cases, and several of such cases remain outstanding. in addition, the settlement did not 41 release claims arising under erisa and the lawsuits arising thereunder. as of the opt-out deadline, tyco had received opt-out notices from individuals and entities totaling approximately 4% of the shares owned by class members. a number of these individuals and entities have filed claims separately against tyco. any judgments resulting from such claims or from claims that are filed in the future would not reduce the settlement amount. generally, the claims asserted by these plaintiffs include claims similar to those asserted by the settling defendants; namely, violations of the disclosure provisions of federal securities laws. tyco intends to vigorously defend any litigation resulting from opt-out claims. it is not possible to predict the final outcome or to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of the asserted or unasserted claims from individuals that have opted-out or from any other legacy securities litigation. should any of these cases result in an adverse judgment or be settled for a significant amount, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, each of tyco, covidien and tyco electronics are jointly and severally liable for the full amount of any legacy securities action settlement (including erisa claims) and any judgments resulting from opt-out claims. additionally, under the separation and distribution agreement, the companies shared in the liability and escrow accounts related to the class action settlement, with tyco assuming 27%, covidien 42% and tyco electronics 31% of the settlement amount. as a result, tyco incurred a charge to expense, for which no tax benefit is available, and a current liability of $2.975 billion in the third quarter of 2007. tyco borrowed under its unsecured bridge and credit facilities to fund the liability and placed the proceeds in escrow for the benefit of the class. in connection with the separation, covidien and tyco electronics assumed their portion of the related borrowing. the company has also recovered certain of these costs from insurers. as a result, the company recorded $113 million of recoveries in connection with the class action settlement in its consolidated statements of operations for 2007. based on the separation and distribution agreement, the company recorded payables to covidien and tyco electronics for their portion of the 2007 recoveries with an offset to shareholders' equity. the company recovered an additional $38 million of costs from insurers during 2008. the company recorded payables to covidien and tyco electronics for their respective shares of the 2008 recoveries resulting in a net $10 million credit recorded to class action settlement, net in the consolidated statement of operations. since all legal contingencies that could have affected the settlement were exhausted on february 21, 2008, the administration and distribution of the settlement funds in escrow has been managed by the counsel of the certified class and tyco is not subject to any further liability related to the class action settlement. as a result, tyco has extinguished the class action liability and no longer has claim to the escrow account. the escrow accounts earned interest that was payable to the class. as a result, interest was also accrued on the class action settlement liability. on february 21, 2008, the class action liability and escrow account balances including interest were each $3.02 billion. based on the separation and distribution agreement, tyco had a receivable from covidien and tyco electronics for their portion of the liability of $1,257 million and $927 million, respectively at september 28, 2007 and corresponding payables to covidien and tyco electronics for their interest in the escrow accounts. receivables and payables that pertain to the class action settlement and related escrow accounts with the same counterparty were presented net in the consolidated balance sheet. tyco's portion of the liability was $808 million at september 28, 2007. these amounts were extinguished during the second quarter of 2008. 42 operating results net revenue, operating income (loss) and net income (loss) for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 revenue from product sales $ 13,064 $ 11,816 $ 10,731 service revenue 7,135 6,661 6,335 net revenue $ 20,199 $ 18,477 $ 17,066 operating income (loss) $ 1,941 $ (1,732 ) $ 1,355 interest income 110 104 46 interest expense (396 ) (313 ) (279 ) other expense, net (224 ) (255 ) income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest 1,431 (2,196 ) 1,122 income taxes (335 ) (324 ) (304 ) minority interest (1 ) (4 ) (1 ) income (loss) from continuing operations 1,095 (2,524 ) 817 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 458 782 2,787 income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,553 (1,742 ) 3,604 cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes (14 ) net income (loss) $ 1,553 $ (1,742 ) $ 3,590 net revenue increased $1.7 billion, or 9.3%, for 2008 as compared to 2007 as a result of growth in all of our segments led by solid year over year increases in flow control, adt worldwide and electrical and metal products. the increase in net revenue in flow control resulted from volume growth due to continued strength in most industrial end markets with significant project growth in the valves business. in addition, net revenue growth in adt worldwide was attributable to growth in all geographic regions, as well as growth in its north american recurring revenue base. electrical and metal products experienced growth primarily due to selling price increases partially offset by a decrease in volume. foreign currency exchange rates positively affected 2008 by $772 million while the net impact of acquisitions, divestitures and other activity positively affected 2008 by $35 million. operating income increased $3.7 billion for 2008. operating loss in 2007 included the class action settlement charge of $2.862 billion while 2008 operating income included a class action benefit of $10 million. strong year over year income growth in all segments led by flow control, adt worldwide and electrical and metal products, as well as lower corporate expenses contributed to the increase in operating income. operating income was also favorably impacted as a result of lower separation related costs and goodwill impairment charges. separation related costs impacted operating income by $4 million and $105 million and goodwill impairment charges impacted operating income by $9 million and $46 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. additionally, operating income was negatively impacted by restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $248 million for 2008 and $210 million for 2007. net revenue increased $1.4 billion, or 8.3%, for 2007 as compared to 2006 as a result of growth in all of our segments. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by flow control as a result of volume growth from continued strength in most industrial end markets. in addition, adt worldwide had strong growth in asia and latin america, as well as growth in its recurring revenue base and systems installation and service in north america. fire protection services experienced continued growth in electronic and mechanical contracting. foreign currency exchange rates positively affected 2007 by $580 million while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures negatively affected 2007 by $48 million. 43 operating income decreased $3.1 billion for 2007. operating income was primarily impacted by the class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion. revenue growth in all segments was partially offset by lower margins in electrical and metal products primarily due to unfavorable spreads on both steel and copper products. additionally, operating income was impacted by costs incurred relating to the separation and the restructuring program announced in november 2006. separation related costs impacted operating income by $105 million for 2007 and $49 million for 2006. restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net impacted operating income by $210 million and $15 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. also impacting operating income was a goodwill impairment charge of $46 million due to the reorganization into our new management and segment reporting structure. in addition, 2006 was unfavorably affected by a $100 million charge relating to a pre-existing voluntary replacement program for certain sprinkler heads, incremental stock option charges of $84 million as required under sfas no. 123r, "share-based payment," and separation related costs of $49 million. operating income for 2006 also included $72 million of income related to the extinguishment of certain payment obligations under a split dollar life insurance policy and rabbi trust pursuant to a settlement with mr. kozlowski, former chief executive officer, and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. results by geographic area net revenue by geographic area for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 was as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 net revenue (1) : united states $ 9,661 $ 8,884 $ 8,617 other americas 1,537 1,445 1,354 europe, middle east and africa 5,749 5,338 4,707 asia-pacific 3,252 2,810 2,388 $ 20,199 $ 18,477 $ 17,066 (1) revenue is attributed to individual countries based on the reporting entity that records the transaction. segment results the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each of our segments included in continuing operations. adt worldwide net revenue, operating income and operating margin for adt worldwide for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 revenue from product sales $ 2,821 $ 2,734 $ 2,546 service revenue 5,196 4,914 4,659 net revenue $ 8,017 $ 7,648 $ 7,205 operating income $ 910 $ 842 $ 907 operating margin 11.4 % 11.0 % 12.6 % 44 net revenue by geographic area for adt worldwide for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 was as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 north america $ 4,218 $ 4,094 $ 3,985 europe, middle east and africa 2,641 2,574 2,344 rest of world 1,158 980 876 $ 8,017 $ 7,648 $ 7,205 net revenue for adt worldwide increased $369 million, or 4.8%, during 2008, with product revenue up 3.2% and service revenue up 5.7%, as compared to 2007. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of electronic security and other systems. service revenue is comprised of electronic security services and maintenance, including the monitoring of burglar alarms, fire alarms and other life safety systems as well as services related to retailer anti-theft systems. approximately 50% of adt's total net revenue is contractual and is considered recurring revenue. overall, recurring revenue grew 6.1% during 2008 while systems installation and service revenue grew 3.7%. geographically, north america grew 3%, resulting largely from growth in recurring revenue which was partially offset by weakness in the retailer end market. the north america net revenue increase also includes the impact of acquisitions, which contributed $53 million. although we experienced year-over-year net revenue increase in north america, this was partially offset by the retailer end market which continued to show signs of weakness during the fourth quarter of 2008. we will continue to monitor these market conditions as well as the current economic environment as we enter fiscal year 2009. revenue in the emea region increased $67 million, or 2.6%, as a result of foreign currency exchange rates which had a favorable impact of $151 million. this increase was partially offset by a decline in systems installation and service revenue due to weakness in the retailer end market as well as commercial softness primarily in the united kingdom. the 18.2% revenue growth in the rest of world geographies was primarily driven by growth in both recurring revenue and contracting across all regions. the rest of the world increase included the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $30 million. overall, the adt worldwide net revenue increase included the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $213 million. the net impact of acquisitions, divestitures, and other activity positively affected revenue by $27 million. operating margin in adt worldwide increased to 11.4% in 2008 from 11.0% in 2007. north america is one of the most profitable geographic areas for adt worldwide with 2008 and 2007 operating margin of 15.8% and 16.9%, respectively. margins in north america were negatively impacted by $58 million of restructuring and asset impairments in 2008 compared to $8 million in 2007. restructuring charges in 2008 include $58 million relating to the reacquisition of certain franchise rights that were deemed to be unfavorable to the company. there were no charges related to the reacquisition of franchise rights in 2007. in addition, north america incurred $48 million and $12 million to convert customers from analog to digital signal transmissions in 2008 and 2007, respectively. north america operating margins benefited from continued growth in recurring revenue partially offset by declines in the retailer end market. adt emea had 2008 and 2007 operating margin of 4.6% and 3.1%, respectively. emea's operating income included $52 million of restructuring and impairments in 2008 compared with $71 million in 2007. emea margins benefited from reduced costs as a result of the restructuring program, which was partially offset by volume decreases as discussed above. attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business increased over the prior year to an average of 12.9% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2008, as compared to 12.3% for 2007 and 14.2% in 2006. the increased attrition was partially due to the analog to digital conversion project and partially due to the market conditions in the commercial business, which included customers switching from a 45 contractual service agreement to a time and material basis. internationally, our attrition rate continued to improve. operating income in 2008 increased $68 million, or 8.1%, as compared to 2007. factors that positively impacted operating income included increased volume, particularly our higher margin recurring revenue, operational efficiencies, including those achieved from restructuring activities in europe, lower depreciation and amortization expense and lower long-lived asset impairment charges. the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense occurred primarily in north america and resulted from changes to the depreciation method and estimated useful lives for pooled subscriber assets and changes to the estimated useful lives of dealer intangible assets. the reduction in depreciation and amortization expense was partially offset by increased net expenses of $51 million, which primarily related to converting customers from analog to digital signal transmissions in north america. results for 2007 include goodwill impairment charges due to the reorganization of our management and segment reporting structure following the separation. net revenue for adt worldwide increased 6.1% during 2007, with product revenue up 7.4% and service revenue up 5.5%, as compared to 2006. the 2.7% revenue growth in north america resulted largely from an increase in commercial installations, primarily in the retailer market, as well as an increase in the recurring revenue base. revenue in the emea region grew 9.8%, primarily driven by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. the 11.9% revenue growth in the rest of world geographies was primarily driven by strong growth in asia and latin america and, to a lesser extent, favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. overall, net revenue was favorably affected by $213 million due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures unfavorably impacted net revenue by $3 million. operating income of $842 million in 2007 decreased $65 million from $907 million in 2006. factors that positively impacted operating income included increased volume, operational efficiencies and reductions to depreciation and amortization expense, of $26 million. the decrease to depreciation and amortization expense resulted from changes to the depreciation method and estimated useful lives for pooled subscriber assets and changes to the estimated useful lives of dealer intangible assets. these increases were more than offset by a goodwill impairment charge of $46 million, due to the reorganization of our management and segment reporting structure, as well as increased investment in selling and marketing in americas and asia. in addition, results for 2007 included restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $83 million, which were primarily related to actions to improve field efficiencies and consolidating certain administrative functions in europe, and an impairment of certain indefinite lived intangible assets. restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net were $5 million in 2006. flow control net revenue, operating income and operating margin for flow control for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 revenue from product sales $ 4,201 $ 3,618 $ 3,002 service revenue 217 148 133 net revenue $ 4,418 $ 3,766 $ 3,135 operating income $ 618 $ 457 $ 356 operating margin 14.0 % 12.1 % 11.4 % net revenue for flow control increased $652 million, or 17.3%, in 2008 as compared to 2007. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by volume growth from continued strength in the valves and 46 thermal businesses, and to a lesser extent, the water business. the increase in the valves business was primarily driven by continued project growth in the oil and gas industry while the thermal business benefited primarily from continued strong project growth coupled with increased selling prices. while revenue within the water business increased year over year, project activity declined during the second half of 2008, primarily in australia. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted revenue by $314 million. the net impact of acquisitions, divestitures and other activity positively affected revenue by $6 million. operating income increased $161 million, or 35.2%, in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily from revenue growth, as well as volume efficiencies. flow control incurred restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $8 million, compared to $28 million in 2007. additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008 included an environmental remediation charge of $6 million related to the closure of a facility in north america as compared to no charges in 2007. net revenue for flow control increased $631 million, or 20.1%, in 2007 as compared to 2006. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by volume growth from continued strength in most industrial end markets with significant project growth in the energy and water sectors. growth in these sectors was strong across all geographical regions, and, in particular, asia-pacific and europe. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted revenue by $197 million while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures unfavorably impacted net revenue by $16 million. the increase in operating income of $101 million, or 28.4%, in 2007 as compared 2006 was primarily due to revenue growth, as well as improved utilization rates. the increase in operating income during 2007 was partially offset by restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $28 million, which includes $6 million in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses. fire protection services net revenue, operating income and operating margin for fire protection services for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 revenue from product sales $ 1,860 $ 1,790 $ 1,629 service revenue 1,693 1,576 1,521 net revenue $ 3,553 $ 3,366 $ 3,150 operating income $ 321 $ 258 $ 241 operating margin 9.0 % 7.7 % 7.7 % net revenue for fire protection services increased $187 million, or 5.6%, during 2008 as compared to 2007, driven by increases in both product sales and service revenues. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of fire protection and other systems. service revenue comprises of inspection, maintenance, service and monitoring of fire detection and suppression systems. this increase in product sales was aided by foreign currency exchange rates, which had a favorable impact of $63 million. the increase in service revenue related to growth in service work and sprinkler contracting in north america and asia primarily as a result of an increase in demand from the education and healthcare industries in north america and continued commercial expansion in the asia pacific region. additionally, changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of $62 million on service revenue. the increase was partially offset by reduced revenue in emea and australia/new zealand primarily due to a decline in contracting revenue as a result of a strategic initiative to be more selective in our pursuit of contracts. additionally, the net revenue increase was partially offset due to the planned exit of low performing non-core activities in latin america and asia. overall, the fire 47 protection services net revenue increase included the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $125 million. operating income increased $63 million, or 24.4%, during 2008 as compared to 2007 resulting largely from increased volume and improved margins, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent, asia and emea. the increase in operating income during 2008 was partially offset by $22 million of restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges. also, operating income was unfavorably impacted by $9 million due to a goodwill impairment in the latin america reporting unit. net revenue for fire protection services increased $216 million, or 6.9%, during 2007 as compared to 2006, driven largely by a 9.9% increase in revenue from product sales. this increase was largely the result of strong growth in most regions which benefited from continuing strength in commercial construction activity in our focused end-markets. changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of $101 million while divestitures had a negative impact of $30 million. operating income increased $17 million during 2007 as compared to 2006 resulting largely from increased volume, and improved margins, primarily in north america. results for 2007 included restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $23 million, of which $1 million is included in cost of sales, primarily related to actions to improve field efficiencies and consolidate certain administrative functions in europe. operating income was unfavorably impacted by $1 million of divestiture charges, compared to no charges in 2006. electrical and metal products net revenue, operating income and operating margin for electrical and metal products for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 revenue from product sales $ 2,266 $ 1,970 $ 1,946 service revenue 6 4 3 net revenue $ 2,272 $ 1,974 $ 1,949 operating income $ 342 $ 159 $ 319 operating margin 15.1 % 8.1 % 16.4 % net revenue for electrical and metal products increased $298 million, or 15.1%, in 2008 as compared to 2007. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by selling price increases for steel tubular products and to a lesser extent armored cable products partially offset by decreased sales volume for both products. changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of $44 million. operating income increased $183 million, or 115.1%, in 2008 as compared to 2007. the increase in operating income was primarily due to favorable spreads on both steel tubular and armored cable products. as inventory is replenished at higher prices, the spreads will narrow, which will result in lower operating income. income generated by higher selling prices for both steel tubular and armored cable products were partially offset by decreased sales volume for both products. operational excellence initiatives resulted in reductions in production cost rates for both steel tubular and armored cable products. the increase in operating income during 2008 was partially offset by $43 million of restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, as compared to $7 million in 2007. net revenue for electrical and metal products increased $25 million, or 1.3%, in 2007 as compared to 2006. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $20 million contributed to the increase in revenue. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by increased sales volume of 48 armored cable products, steel tubular products, and higher selling prices and sales volumes in brazil. these increases were largely offset by the impact of lower selling prices on steel tubular products in north america. the decrease in operating income of $160 million, or 50.2%, in 2007 as compared to 2006 was primarily due to unfavorable spreads on both steel tubular and armored cable products. income generated by higher sales volume for both armored cable and steel tubular products were more than offset by lower selling prices and higher raw material prices. results for 2007 included restructuring, asset impairment, and divestiture charges, net of $7 million, compared to no charges in 2006. safety products net revenue, operating income and operating margin for safety products for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 revenue from product sales $ 1,916 $ 1,704 $ 1,608 service revenue 18 15 16 net revenue $ 1,934 $ 1,719 $ 1,624 operating income $ 284 $ 274 $ 196 operating margin 14.7 % 15.9 % 12.1 % net revenue for safety products increased $215 million, or 12.5%, during 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily from strong performance in the fire suppression, and to a lesser extent electronic security and life safety businesses. the increase in the fire suppression business was driven by continued growth in the energy and marine sectors, favorable product mix and increased selling prices to offset increasing raw material costs. the increase in the life safety business was primarily driven by growth in north america as a result of increased spending by fire departments due to the release of federal funds, and from increased selling prices. the increase in the electronic security business was partially due to higher volume and new product introductions primarily related to casinos and schools. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $76 million also contributed to the increase in revenue. operating income increased $10 million, or 3.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. the increase in operating income was primarily attributable to increased sales volume along with the impact of cost savings from operational excellence initiatives. the increase in operating income during 2008 was partially offset by $73 million of restructuring, asset impairment, and divestiture charges, net as compared to $29 million in 2007. net revenue for safety products increased $95 million, or 5.8%, during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily from strong performance in the fire suppression and electronic security businesses. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $49 million also contributed to the increase in revenue. the increase in the fire suppression business was driven by continued growth in the energy and marine sectors in the americas and the middle east as well as increased selling prices to help offset the significant cost increase of raw materials. the electronic security business also experienced favorable growth as a result of new product introductions and new market expansions. these increases were partially offset by continued softness in the life safety business in north america due to delays of federal assistance provided to fire departments. operating income increased $78 million to $274 million for the year ended september 28, 2007 compared to the prior year. prior year results included a $100 million charge related to a pre-existing voluntary replacement program ("vrp") for sprinkler heads in the fire suppression business. the deadline for filing claims to participate in the vrp ended on august 31, 2007. in light of the most current claims data, an additional $10 million charge was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007. also, 49 2007 results include the effect of restructuring, asset impairment, and divestiture charges, net of $29 million. corporate and other corporate expense for 2008 was $3.2 billion lower as compared to the prior year, primarily resulting from various charges in 2007, including the class action settlement charge of $2.862 billion, separation costs of $117 million and net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $40 million primarily related to the consolidation of certain headquarter functions. corporate expense for 2008 included net charges of $28 million composed of a $29 million charge for a legacy legal settlement, $4 million of separation costs and $5 million for restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net, offset by a credit of $10 million for class action settlement recoveries. the remaining decrease in corporate expense is primarily related to cost reduction initiatives and the restructuring program. corporate expense for 2006 included $72 million of income related to the extinguishment of certain payment obligations under a split dollar life insurance policy and rabbi trust pursuant to a settlement with mr. kozlowski, former chief executive officer, and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. these income items were partially offset by incremental stock option charges of $47 million required under sfas no. 123r, separation related costs of $49 million and restructuring and divestiture charges of $2 million. interest income and expense interest income was $110 million in 2008, as compared to $104 million and $46 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. the increases in interest income in 2008 and 2007 are primarily related to interest earned on the class action settlement escrow of $47 and $41 million, respectively. interest expense was $396 million in 2008, as compared to $313 million in 2007 and $279 million in 2006. the increases in interest expense in 2008 and 2007 are a result of interest on the class action settlement liability of $47 and $41 million, respectively, and increased costs related to our bridge loan and revolving credit facilities. the weighted-average interest rate on total debt outstanding at september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were 6.2%, 6.3% and 6.0%, respectively. in 2007 and 2006, net interest amounts were proportionally allocated to covidien and tyco electronics based on the debt amounts that we believe were utilized by covidien and tyco electronics historically inclusive of amounts directly incurred, and is included in discontinued operations. allocated net interest was calculated using our historical weighted average interest rate on debt, including the impact of interest rate swap agreements. the portion of tyco's interest income allocated to covidien and tyco electronics was $35 million and $53 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. the portion of tyco's interest expense allocated to covidien and tyco electronics was $242 million and $378 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. 50 other expense, net other expense, net was $224 million in 2008 and $255 million in 2007. other expense, net in 2008 primarily relates to the loss of $258 million on extinguishment of debt related to the consent solicitation and exchange offers and termination of the bridge loan facility offset by income of $6 million recorded in connection with the settlement of its 3.125% convertible senior debentures and related financial instruments. see notes 13 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements. the company also recorded other-than-temporary impairments and realized losses on the sale of investments of $6 million related primarily to investments in corporate debt. refer to note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, the company recorded $40 million of income as a result of an increase in the receivables due from covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement upon the adoption of financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 48, "accounting for uncertain income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109." the company also recorded $6 million of expense for other activity in accordance with the tax sharing agreements during 2008. during 2007, other expense, net consisted primarily of a $259 million loss on early extinguishment of debt incurred in connection with debt tender offers undertaken in connection with the separation, for which no tax benefit is available. see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. this charge consists primarily of premiums paid and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts. the total loss on early extinguishment of debt was $647 million, with $259 million included in continuing operations and $388 million allocated to covidien and tyco electronics and included in discontinued operations. income taxes effective income tax rate our effective income tax rate was 23.4% for 2008. income taxes during 2008 were positively impacted by increased profitability in lower tax rate jurisdictions and release of deferred tax valuation allowances partially offset by enacted tax law changes that negatively impacted the non-u.s. deferred tax assets. the effective tax rate for 2007 is not meaningful primarily as a result of the class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion and the loss on early extinguishment of debt of $259 million for which no tax benefit is available. additionally, taxes for 2007 were negatively impacted by tax costs related to the separation of $92 million and were favorably impacted by the release of a deferred tax valuation allowance related to non-u.s. tax rulings received during the period and reduced reserve requirements on certain legacy tax matters. our effective income tax rate for 2006 was 27.1%. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $745 million and $644 million at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. we believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets. the valuation allowance was calculated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 109, " accounting for income taxes ," which requires a valuation allowance be established or maintained when it is "more likely than not" that all or a portion of deferred tax assets will not be realized. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the 51 tax liabilities. further, management has reviewed with tax counsel the issues raised by these taxing authorities and the adequacy of these recorded amounts. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. tax sharing agreement in connection with the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics from tyco, tyco entered into a tax sharing agreement that generally governs covidien's, tyco electronics' and tyco's respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations after the separation with respect to taxes, including ordinary course of business taxes and taxes, if any, incurred as a result of any failure of the distribution of all of the shares of covidien or tyco electronics to qualify as a tax-free distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of section 355 of the code or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs to qualify for tax-favored treatment under the code. under the tax sharing agreement, the company shares responsibility for certain of tyco's, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, tyco, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of shared income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. income tax returns. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are shared equally among the parties. tyco has recorded a receivable from covidien and tyco electronics of $113 million at september 26, 2008 and $103 million at september 28, 2007 which is included in other assets as our estimate of their portion of the tax sharing obligations. other liabilities include $554 million and $543 million at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively for the fair value of tyco's obligations under the tax sharing agreement, determined in accordance with fin no. 45, " guarantor's accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others ." tyco assesses the shared tax liabilities and related fin no. 45 liability at each reporting period. the receivable and liability were initially recognized with an offset to shareholders' equity in 2007. in the first quarter of 2008, in connection with the adoption of fin no. 48 and the related increase in uncertain tax positions for shared tax liabilities under the tax sharing agreement, tyco increased its receivable from covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement with a corresponding increase to other income, net by $40 million ($0.08 for both basic and diluted earnings per share). in addition, $6 million of expense for other activity was recorded in accordance with the tax sharing agreement during 2008. tyco will provide payment under the tax sharing agreement as the shared income tax liabilities are settled. settlement is expected to occur as the audit process by local taxing authorities is completed for the impacted years. given the nature of the shared liabilities, the maximum amount of potential future payments is not determinable. in the event the separation is determined to be taxable and such determination was the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or tyco electronics as a result thereof. if such determination is not the result of actions taken after the separation by tyco, covidien or tyco electronics, then tyco, covidien and tyco electronics would be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on tyco, covidien or tyco electronics as a result of such determination. such tax amounts could be significant. the company is responsible for all of its own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. 52 if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, the company could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, the company may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its agreed-upon share of tyco's, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of guarantees and indemnifications extended between tyco, covidien and tyco electronics. other income tax matters the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. management has assessed the issues related to these adjustments for recognition and measurement under fin no. 48 and has recorded unrecognized tax benefits in accordance with fin no. 48. the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in a material impact to the company's financial position, results of operations, cash flows or the effective tax rate in future reporting periods. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to these prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments, and the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2002. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that these adjustments will more-likely-than-not be accepted and, accordingly, has recorded them in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, during 2008 the company completed proposed amendments to its u.s. federal income tax returns for periods subsequent to 2002, which primarily reflect the roll forward through 2006 of the amendments for the periods 1997 to 2002. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the income tax return amendment process and the irs review is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. during the third quarter of 2007, the irs concluded its field examination of certain of tyco's u.s. federal income tax returns for the years 1997 though 2000 and issued anticipated revenue agents' reports ("rars") which reflect the irs' determination of proposed tax adjustments for the periods under audit. the rars propose tax audit adjustments to certain of the company's previously filed tax return positions. the company agreed with the irs on adjustments totaling $498 million, with an estimated cash impact to the company of $458 million, and during the third quarter of 2007, the company paid $458 million, of which $163 million related to the company's discontinued operations. the company appealed other proposed tax audit adjustments totaling approximately $1 billion relating to tyco, covidien and tyco electronics, and, as audit managing party as specified in the tax sharing agreement, the company intends to vigorously defend its prior filed tax return positions. during the second quarter of 2008, the irs issued additional rars asserting a withholding tax liability of approximately $106 million associated with the prior proposed tax adjustments related to tyco, covidien and tyco electronics for the 1997 to 2000 period. the withholding tax amount asserted against tyco is immaterial. during the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the company reached an agreement 53 with the irs appeals team to work towards timely resolution of all unagreed issues related to this time period. the company, as audit managing party as specified in the tax sharing agreement, intends to vigorously defend its prior filed tax return positions and determined that no adjustment is required to the company's guarantees and indemnifications liability recorded in conjunction with the tax sharing agreement as discussed in "guarantees" within management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. additionally, the irs is auditing the prior tax returns of the company, which include legal entities of tyco, covidien and tyco electronics for the 2001 to 2004 period. the irs has not issued any rars for this period. the irs proposed civil fraud penalties against a prior subsidiary that was distributed to tyco electronics arising from alleged actions of former executives in connection with intercompany transfers of stock of simplex technologies in 1998 and 1999. based on statutory guidelines, we estimate the proposed penalties could range between $30 million and $50 million. the company, as audit managing party as specified in the tax sharing agreement, intends to vigorously oppose the assertion of any such penalties against tyco electronics, in part, because beginning in 2003 the company discovered, investigated and reported the conduct at issue to the irs and fully cooperated in the criminal prosecution of the company's former chief tax officer on a charge of willful filing of a false tax return. this is a pre-separation shared tax matter under the tax sharing agreement. except for earnings that are currently distributed, no additional material provision has been made for u.s. or non-u.s. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of subsidiaries or for unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, as such earnings are expected to be permanently reinvested, the investments are essentially permanent in duration, or the company has concluded that no additional tax liability will arise as a result of distribution of such earnings. a liability could arise if amounts are distributed by such subsidiaries or if such subsidiaries are ultimately disposed. it is not practicable to estimate the additional income taxes related to permanently reinvested earnings or the basis differences related to investments in subsidiaries. divestitures held for sale and reflected as continuing operations during the third quarter of 2008, the company approved a plan to sell a business in the safety products segment. this business is presented in continuing operations as the criteria for discontinued operations has not been met. the company has assessed and determined that the carrying value of this business is recoverable and will continue to assess recoverability based on current fair value, less cost to sell, until the business is sold. fair value used for the impairment assessment was based on existing market conditions. the company expects to complete a sale during the first half of fiscal 2009. discontinued operations the company continued to assess the strategic fit of its various businesses and has pursued divestiture of certain businesses which do not align with its long-term strategy. during 2008, as part of the company's portfolio refinement efforts, the company sold its eteo business, ancon business, ndc business, and a european manufacturer of public address products and acoustic systems. additionally, the company substantially completed the sale of its infrastructure services business, during the fourth quarter of 2008. these businesses met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. in may 2008, the company sold 100% of the stock of eteo, a brazilian subsidiary of infrastructure services for $338 million of net cash proceeds and recorded a pre-tax gain of $232 million, including the effects of the economic hedge of the purchase price discussed below. the gain was recorded in income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the company's 54 consolidated statement of operations. eteo was part of the company's corporate and other segment. during september 2007, tyco entered into an economic hedge of the brazilian real denominated contractual sale price of the eteo business. since the hedging transaction was directly linked to the proceeds from the sale of a business that was reflected in discontinued operations, tyco began including the impact of the hedge in discontinued operations during the first quarter of 2008. during the third quarter of 2008, tyco incurred a pre-tax loss of $36 million on this hedge. the impact of the hedge in the prior year was not material. in february 2008, the company executed a definitive agreement to sell the remaining portion of infrastructure services excluding earth tech brasil ltda. ("et brasil") to aecom technologies corporation ("aecom"). in july 2008, the company substantially completed the sale to aecom. the sale was completed for $455 million net of a $20 million working capital adjustment resulting in net cash proceeds of $435 million. the $435 million of net cash proceeds includes $53 million for the sale of earth tech uk. a pre-tax gain of approximately $183 million was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the company's consolidated statements of operations. in order to complete the sale, the company is required to obtain consents and approvals to transfer the legal ownership of the earth tech uk businesses to aecom. therefore, in july 2008 the company and aecom entered into an agreement in which aecom would manage the uk businesses on behalf of the company, while the company would finance the uk businesses' operations. also as part of the agreement, aecom agreed to reimburse the company for all of the funding provided by the company through the closing date of the sale. as a result of the agreement, aecom assumed all the risks and rewards of ownership for the uk businesses. at september 26, 2008, the necessary consents and approvals had not been obtained by the company to transfer the legal ownership of the earth tech uk businesses to aecom. the company expects to record a gain related to the uk businesses upon receipt of the necessary consents and approvals, which is expected to occur in the first half of 2009. certain assets in china were excluded from the sale and are expected to be transferred during the first half of 2009 for additional consideration of approximately $55 million once the necessary consents and approvals are obtained. infrastructure services, et brasil, the earthtech uk business and the china assets discussed above were part of the company's corporate and other segment. as et brasil was excluded from the sale to aecom, as discussed above, the company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $16 million to write down et brasil to its fair value, less cost to sell during 2008. fair value used for the impairment assessment was based on existing market conditions. in july 2008, the company executed a definitive agreement to sell et brasil for approximately $16 million in net cash proceeds. the sale is expected to close in the first quarter of 2009 upon receipt of the necessary consents and approvals. at september 26, 2008, the company has assessed and determined that the carrying value of the remaining assets in china and et brasil are recoverable based on current fair value, less cost to sell. the company will continue to assess recoverability until the assets in the china and et brasil are sold. during 2008, the company settled a contract dispute arising under its former infrastructure services business. in connection with the settlement, the company assessed its assets under the original contract and concluded the assets were no longer recoverable, resulting in a $51 million charge to discontinued operations. in april 2008, the company sold ancon, a manufacturer of stainless steel products used in masonry construction. ancon was part of the company's corporate and other segment. the sale was completed for $164 million in net cash proceeds and a pre-tax gain of $100 million was recorded which was largely exempt from tax. the gain was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the company's consolidated statement of operations. during the fourth quarter of 2008, the company received an additional $6 million of proceeds related to the sale of ancon. 55 in february 2008, the company sold ndc, a company in the japanese fire protection industry. ndc was part of the company's fire protection and safety products segments. the sale was completed for $50 million in net cash proceeds and a pre-tax gain of $7 million was recorded. the gain was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the company's consolidated statement of operations. in january 2008, the company sold a european manufacturer of public address products and acoustic systems which was part of the company's fire protection segment and recorded an $8 million pre-tax loss on sale. the loss was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the company's consolidated statement of operations. during the first quarter of 2007, aquas industriales de jose, c.a. ("aij"), a joint venture that was majority owned by infrastructure services, was sold for $42 million in net cash proceeds and a pre-tax gain of $19 million was recorded. the gain was recorded in discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the company's consolidated statement of operations. aij was part of the company's corporate and other segment. during the third quarter of 2007, tyco completed the separation and has presented its healthcare and electronics businesses as discontinued operations in all periods presented. in each period prior to the separation, net interest and loss on early extinguishment of debt, which is included in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations, amounts were proportionally allocated to covidien and tyco electronics based on the debt amounts that tyco believes were utilized by covidien and tyco electronics historically inclusive of amounts directly incurred. allocated net interest was calculated using our historical weighted-average interest rate on debt including the impact of interest rate swap agreements. these allocated amounts were included in discontinued operations. during 2007, allocated interest income, interest expense and other expense, net was $35 million, $242 million and $388 million, respectively. during 2006, allocated interest income, interest expense and other expense, net was $53 million, $378 million and $0 million, respectively. during 2007, the company incurred pre-tax separation costs related primarily to professional services and employee-related costs of $154 million and $289 million, respectively, in discontinued operations. additionally, the year ended september 28, 2007 includes tax charges related to the separation primarily for the write-off of deferred tax assets that are no longer realizable of $88 million in discontinued operations. the company has used available information to develop its best estimates for certain assets and liabilities related to the separation. in limited instances, final determination of the balances will be made in subsequent periods. during the year ended september 28, 2007, $72 million was recorded through shareholders' equity, primarily related to a cash true-up adjustment of $57 million and $15 million of other items. during the year ended september 26, 2008, $70 million of other items was recorded through shareholders' equity. the other items, which aggregate $85 million, reflect immaterial adjustments to shareholders' equity which were recorded to correct the distribution amount at the date of separation. adjustments in the future for the impact of filing final income tax returns in certain jurisdictions where those returns include a combination of tyco, covidien and/or tyco electronics legal entities and for certain amended income tax returns for the periods prior to the separation may be recorded to either shareholders' equity or the statement of income depending on the specific item giving rise to the adjustment. 56 net revenue, income from operations, gain (loss) on sale, separation costs and income tax expense for discontinued operations for 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 net revenue $ 1,221 $ 19,271 $ 25,067 pre-tax income from discontinued operations $ 51 $ 2,816 $ 3,842 pre-tax gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations 484 (549 ) (245 ) separation costs (719 ) (120 ) income tax expense (77 ) (766 ) (690 ) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes $ 458 $ 782 $ 2,787 balance sheet information for pending divestitures at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 is as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 accounts receivable, net $ 52 $ 438 inventories 24 64 prepaid expenses and other current assets 18 47 property, plant and equipment, net 20 166 goodwill and other intangibles, net 157 236 other assets 113 434 total assets $ 384 $ 1,385 current maturities of long-term debt $ 4 $ 5 accounts payable 27 228 accrued and other current liabilities 58 320 long-term debt 18 other liabilities 39 91 total liabilities $ 128 $ 662 minority interest $ 1 $ 30 losses on divestitures during 2008, 2007 and 2006, the company recorded $1 million, $4 million and $2 million, respectively, of divestiture charges in continuing operations in connection with the write-down to fair value, less cost to sell, of certain businesses, which did not get classified as discontinued operations as they did not meet the criteria for such classification. the fair value used for the impairment assessments was primarily based on the terms and conditions included or expected to be included in the sales agreements. acquisitions as part of the company's strategy to strengthen its product and service offerings and market positions, the company acquired winner security services llc ("winner"), sensormatic security corp. ("ssc") and firstservice security ("firstservice") during 2008. on june 5, 2008, the company's adt worldwide segment acquired substantially all of the assets of winner for $90 million. the franchise was originally granted by sensormatic electronics corporation and granted winner rights to sell, install and service certain sensormatic products and entitled winner to commissions on sensormatic products sold, installed or shipped into its franchise territories. sensormatic products are sold through adt worldwide and safety products. 57 on july 9, 2008, the company's adt worldwide segment acquired substantially all of the assets of ssc, including franchise rights, and agreed to settle a related legal matter for total consideration of approximately $86 million. ssc was a franchisee of sensormatic electronics corporation in the states of virginia and maryland and in the district of columbia. it was the last remaining major sensormatic franchise. under the original franchise agreement, ssc was granted rights to sell, install and service certain sensormatic products and was entitled to commissions on sensormatic products sold, installed or shipped into its franchise territories. sensormatic and ssc also settled the previously disclosed litigation between the parties related to the ssc franchise for $6 million in connection with the transaction. the value ascribed to the settlement of the legal matter was determined based on the consideration paid in excess of the fair value of the franchise and franchise rights acquired. these transactions were accounted for as business combinations and the company applied eitf issue no. 04-1, "accounting for preexisting relationships between the parties to a business combination," since there were preexisting relationships between the company and winner and ssc that needed to be assessed and accounted for separately. after assessing the specific facts and circumstances related to these transactions, the company recorded charges of $38 million and $20 million for winner and ssc, respectively during 2008 for the reacquisition of franchise rights that were deemed to be unfavorable to the company when compared to pricing for current market transactions for similar arrangements. the company utilized an income method valuation approach in measuring the value of the preexisting relationship. since these charges relate to a change in the manner in which the company will conduct business in these territories, they have been reflected as restructuring charges. the remaining purchase price for winner was $52 million, which consists of a $46 million indefinite-lived intangible asset, $1 million of customer lists which are amortizable over a 10-year period and $5 million of goodwill. the remaining purchase price for ssc was $60 million, which consists of a $52 million indefinite-lived intangible asset, $4 million of customer lists which are amortizable over a 10-year period and $4 million of goodwill. goodwill associated with the winner and ssc transactions is deductible for tax purposes. on june 30, 2008, the company's adt worldwide segment acquired firstservice security, a division of firstservice corporation, for approximately $187 million. firstservice security is a commercial security systems integrator and provides a full range of integrated security system services, including design, engineering, installation, servicing and monitoring of access control, closed-circuit television and intrusion systems. the purchase price for firstservice has been allocated on a preliminary basis and consists of $38 million of net working capital and other assets, $5 million of property, plant and equipment, net, $52 million of intangible assets and $92 million of goodwill. goodwill associated with the firstservice transaction is not deductible for tax purposes. additionally during 2008, cash paid for other acquisitions included in continuing operations, primarily within adt worldwide and safety products, totaled $38 million. during 2007, cash paid for acquisitions included in continuing operations, primarily within adt worldwide, safety products and flow control, totaled $31 million. cash paid for acquisitions by businesses included in continuing operations during 2006 was $5 million. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash from operations. the results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in tyco's consolidated results from the respective acquisition dates. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the aggregate amounts paid for the acquired businesses have been allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on preliminary estimates of fair value at september 26, 2008. the purchase price allocation remains subject to change based on final valuations of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. the company does not expect the finalization of these matters to have a material 58 effect on these allocations. the following represents preliminary purchase price allocations for the acquired businesses ($ in million): net working capital and other assets $ 21 property, plant and equipment, net 7 goodwill 140 intangible assets, net 170 purchase price $ 338 payments relating to the reacquisition of unfavorable franchise rights and legal settlement 64 aggregate amount paid $ 402 acquisition liabilities at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, acquisition liabilities were included in the company's consolidated balance sheets as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 accrued and other current liabilities $ 3 $ 4 other liabilities 9 10 $ 12 $ 14 acquisition liabilities relate to facility exit costs, employee severance and benefits, distributor and supplier cancellation fees and other costs. the company paid $2 million, $5 million and $5 million to fund acquisition liabilities during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. holdback liabilities the company paid cash of approximately $5 million and $2 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to holdback liabilities related to certain prior period acquisitions. there were no such payments in 2008. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet and other contingencies. at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, holdback liabilities were included in the company's consolidated balance sheets as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 other liabilities $ 18 $ 16 adt dealer program during 2008, 2007 and 2006, tyco paid $376 million, $409 million and $373 million of cash, respectively, to acquire approximately 370,000, 415,000 and 401,000 customer contracts for electronic security services through the adt dealer program. goodwill impairment annually and more frequently if triggering events occur, the company tests goodwill for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. fair value for the goodwill impairment test is determined utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the company's future budgets discounted using the company's weighted average cost of capital and market indicators of terminal year cash flows. other valuation methods are used to corroborate the discounted 59 cash flow method. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered potentially impaired. during the annual goodwill impairment testing for the fiscal year ended september 26, 2008, the carrying amount of goodwill in the latin america fire protection business, part of the fire protection services segment, exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill. as a result, the company recognized a goodwill impairment of $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. furthermore, the company believes its goodwill balance at september 26, 2008 is recoverable. in connection with the separation, during the third quarter of 2007 tyco reorganized into a new management and segment reporting structure. as part of these organizational changes, the company assessed new reporting units and conducted valuations to determine the assignment of goodwill to the new reporting units based on their estimated relative fair values. following the relative fair value goodwill allocation, the company then tested goodwill for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded its fair value, goodwill was considered potentially impaired. where goodwill was potentially impaired, we compared the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill to the carrying amount of that goodwill. the carrying amount of goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill in the australia and new zealand security services business, part of the adt worldwide segment. as a result, the company recognized a goodwill impairment of $46 million in the third quarter of 2007. in determining fair value, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgments in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in the factors described above. in light of current economic conditions, additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. the company has certain reporting units which have limited excess of fair value over carrying value. the goodwill balance for reporting units with less than a ten percent excess of fair value over carrying value in the aggregate was approximately $2.4 billion at september 26, 2008. cumulative effect of accounting change during 2006, the company adopted financial accounting standards board interpretation ("fin") no. 47, " accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations an interpretation of fasb statement no. 143 ." fin no. 47 clarifies the timing of liability recognition for legal obligations associated with an asset retirement when the timing and (or) method of settling the obligation are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity and clarifies when an entity would have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. fin no. 47 requires that conditional asset retirement obligations, along with the associated capitalized asset retirement costs, be initially reported at their fair values. upon adoption, the company recognized a liability of $32 million for asset retirement obligations and an increase of $10 million in the carrying amount of the related assets, of which $19 million and $5 million are reflected in liabilities and assets of discontinued operations, respectively. the initial recognition resulted in a cumulative effect of accounting change of $14 million after-tax loss ($22 million pre-tax), reflecting the accumulated depreciation and accretion that would have been recognized in prior periods had the provisions of fin no. 47 been in effect at the time. 60 critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. the following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. depreciation and amortization methods for security monitoring-related assets tyco generally considers assets related to the acquisition of new customers in its electronic security business in three asset categories: internally generated residential subscriber systems, internally generated commercial subscriber systems (collectively referred to as subscriber system assets) and customer accounts acquired through the adt dealer program (referred to as dealer intangibles). subscriber system assets include installed property, plant and equipment for which tyco retains ownership and deferred costs directly related to the customer acquisition and system installation. subscriber system assets and any deferred revenue resulting from the customer acquisition are accounted for over the expected life of the subscriber. in certain geographical areas where the company has a large number of customers that behave in a similar manner over time, the company accounts for subscriber system assets and related deferred revenue using pools, with separate pools for the components of subscriber system assets and any related deferred revenue based on the month and year of acquisition. effective as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, tyco changed the depreciation method and estimated useful life used to account for pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in north america) and related deferred revenue from the straight-line method with lives ranging from 10 to 14 years to an accelerated method with lives up to 15 years. the accelerated method utilizes declining balance rates based on geographical area ranging from 160% to 195% for residential subscriber pools and 145% to 265% for commercial subscriber pools and converts to a straight-line methodology when the resulting depreciation charge is greater than that from the accelerated method. the company will continue to use a straight-line method with a 14-year life for non-pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in europe and asia) and related deferred revenue, with remaining balances written off upon customer termination. the change in the method and estimated useful life used to account for pooled subscriber system assets and related deferred revenue resulted from our ongoing analysis of all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data specific to customer categories and geographical areas, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems. the pertinent factors have been influenced by management's ongoing customer retention programs, as well as tactical and strategic initiatives to improve service delivery, customer satisfaction, and the credit worthiness of the subscriber customer base. all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data specific to customer categories and geographical areas, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems, will continue to be reviewed by the company at each balance sheet date to assess the continued appropriateness of methods and estimated useful lives. effective as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, tyco also changed the estimated useful life of dealer intangibles in geographical areas comprising approximately 90% of the net carrying value of dealer intangibles from 12 to 15 years. the company continues to amortize dealer intangible assets on an accelerated basis. the change in the estimated useful life used to account for dealer intangibles resulted from our ongoing analysis of all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems. the pertinent factors have been influenced by management's ongoing customer retention programs, as well as tactical and strategic initiatives to improve service delivery, customer satisfaction, and the credit worthiness of the subscriber customer base. 61 attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business were 12.9%, 12.3% and 14.2% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. revenue recognition contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, large security intruder systems and other construction-related projects are recorded primarily under the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon estimated contract revenue and related total cost of the project at completion. the risk of this methodology is its dependence upon estimates of costs at completion, which are subject to the uncertainties inherent in long-term contracts. revisions to cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits each period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they become determinable. if estimates are inaccurate, there is risk that our revenue and profits for the period may be overstated or understated. product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other markets participants. rebates are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. loss contingencies accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. the accruals are based on judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarially determined estimates. additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. income taxes in determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. these estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. in estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future state, federal and international pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. we currently have recorded significant valuation allowances that we intend to maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. our income tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. the realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance would result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. if a change in a valuation allowance occurs, which was established in connection with an acquisition, such adjustment may impact goodwill rather than the income tax provision. changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. management is not aware of any such changes that would have a material effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and 62 other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. if the tax liabilities relate to tax uncertainties existing at the date of the acquisition of a business, the adjustment of such tax liabilities will result in an adjustment to the goodwill recorded at the date of acquisition. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually and more frequently if triggering events occur. in performing these assessments, management relies on various factors, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable transactions and other market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. since judgment is involved in performing fair value measurements used in goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analyses, there is risk that the carrying values of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be overstated. we elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for all goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. when testing for goodwill impairment, the company follows the guidance prescribed in sfas no. 142, " goodwill and other intangible assets. " first, the company compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. fair value for the goodwill impairment test is determined utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the company's future budgets discounted using the company's weighted average cost of capital and market indicators of terminal year cash flows. other valuation methods are used to corroborate the discounted cash flow method. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered potentially impaired and further tests are performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. in the second step of the goodwill impairment test, the company compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill. if the carrying amount of reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the carrying amount of goodwill over its implied fair value. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. the company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. disruptions to our business such as end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, the divestiture of a significant component of a reporting unit and market capitalization declines may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment first step valuation analysis for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. these types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. in determining fair value, we rely on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and marketplace data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and judgments in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in the factors described above. in light of current economic conditions, additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the 63 annual impairment analysis. we have certain reporting units which have limited excess of fair value over carrying value. the goodwill balance for reporting units with less than a ten percent excess of fair value over carrying value in the aggregate was approximately $2.4 billion at september 26, 2008. goodwill impairments related to continuing operations were $9 million and $46 million during 2008 and 2007, respectively. there were no goodwill impairments related to continuing operations during 2006. we believe our goodwill balance at september 26, 2008 is recoverable. indefinite lived intangible assets consisting primarily of trade names are tested for impairment using the relief from royalty method. the company believes that its intangible assets balance at september 26, 2008 is recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. in light of current economic conditions, impairments to intangible assets could occur in future periods. long-lived assets assets held and used by the company, including property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable. tyco performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if impairment exists. for purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, tyco groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identified. if an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. impairments to long-lived assets to be disposed of are recorded based upon the fair value less cost to sell of the applicable assets. the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets is based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. since judgment is involved in determining the fair value and useful lives of long-lived assets, there is a risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may be overstated or understated. pension and postretirement benefits our pension expense and obligations are developed from actuarial valuations. two critical assumptions in determining pension expense and obligations are the discount rate and expected long-term return on plan assets. we evaluate these assumptions at least annually. other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover and are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. actual results may differ from actuarial assumptions. the discount rate represents the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments and is used to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows for benefit obligations under our pension plans. a decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of pension benefit obligations. a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase our present value of pension obligations by approximately $76 million. we consider the current and expected asset allocations of our pension plans, as well as historical and expected long-term rates of return on those types of plan assets, in determining the expected long-term return on plan assets. a 50 basis point decrease in the expected long-term return on plan assets would increase our pension expense by approximately $10 million. for fiscal 2009, we expect that recent reductions in the value of certain investments held by our pension plans will increase our pension expenses, which, although not currently expected, may result in a material impact on our obligation to fund these plans with cash. liquidity and capital resources recent global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile having an adverse impact on financial markets in general. the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. as a result of concern about the stability of the markets and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers resulting in severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. at this 64 time, the extent to which these conditions will persist is unclear. to date, the company's cost and availability of funding has not been adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and we do not expect it to be materially impacted in the near future. we continue to have sufficient borrowing capacity for our foreseeable needs based on our current cash flow forecast. we currently have two syndicated multi-year revolving credit facilities: a $1.25 billion facility maturing on april 25, 2012 and a $500 million facility maturing on june 24, 2011 with an aggregate commitment of $1.75 billion. on september 15, 2008, lehman brothers holdings inc. ("lehman") filed a petition under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code with the u.s. bankruptcy court for the southern district of new york. lehman is one of the lenders in our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility with a commitment of $60 million. our $500 million credit facility did not have a commitment from lehman. with the exception of the $60 million in commitments under our $1.25 billion facility, we believe that the lenders under our revolving credit facilities are capable of meeting any borrowing requests we may make. on september 25, 2008, we issued a borrowing request for $300 million under our $1.25 billion credit facility in accordance with the terms of the agreement. the lehman portion of the commitment was not funded, resulting in a total funding of $286 million, which represented the total amount outstanding under our revolving credit facilities as of september 26, 2008. based on our cash flow forecast, we believe we will continue to have sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital needs, even if lehman remains unable or unwilling to participate or if another lender does not assume lehman's commitment in the future. our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related cost of these borrowings, is affected by market conditions and our short-term borrowing rating. as of june 27, 2008, we had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $358 million, all of which were scheduled to mature during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. while the company had the intent to refinance these outstanding borrowings through the commercial paper market, we have experienced limitations in our ability to access this market. as of september 26, 2008, we were successful in refinancing $116 million of the commercial paper outstanding as of june 27, 2008 with new commercial paper issuance. the remaining balance was refinanced under our $1.25 billion credit facility. our multi-year revolving credit facilities serve as a backstop to our commercial paper program. it is our intention to fund future maturities of commercial paper through new commercial paper issuances or additional borrowing from our credit facilities. as of november 12, 2008, $686 million was outstanding under our revolving credit facility. in addition to our available cash and operating cash flows, additional sources of potential liquidity include committed credit lines, our commercial paper program, public debt and equity markets as well as the ability to sell trade accounts receivable. we continue to balance our cash operating, investing and financing uses of cash through investment in our existing core businesses, strategic acquisitions and divestitures, dividends and share repurchases. we believe our cash position, amounts available under our credit facilities and cash provided by operating activities will be adequate to cover our operational and business needs. as a result of declines experienced in global financial markets, our pension funds have and may continue to experience a negative return which will result in an increase in pension costs in 2009. we will continue to monitor the market conditions and assess the impact, if any, on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 100% of our u.s. and 97% of our non-u.s. funded pension plans are invested in readily-liquid investments, including equity and fixed income securities. although we do not believe we will be required to make a material cash contribution in the next 12 months, if these 65 market conditions continue, we may be required to make incremental cash contributions under the pension protection act in the u.s. or other local statutory law. the sources of our cash flow from operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations for the years ended september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006 were as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 2006 cash flows from operating activities: operating income (loss) $ 1,941 $ (1,732 ) $ 1,355 goodwill impairment 9 46 non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges, net 37 24 2 losses on divestitures 4 2 depreciation and amortization (1) 1,154 1,148 1,180 non-cash compensation expense 99 173 151 deferred income taxes (94 ) (16 ) (413 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 135 94 55 loss on the retirement of debt 258 259 1 other, net (124 ) (231 ) (37 ) class action settlement liability (3,020 ) 2,992 net change in working capital (646 ) (414 ) 223 interest income 110 104 46 interest expense (396 ) (313 ) (279 ) income tax expense (335 ) (324 ) (304 ) net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (872 ) $ 1,814 $ 1,982 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net (2) $ (706 ) $ (643 ) $ (517 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 14 7 8 acquisition of customer accounts (adt dealer program) (376 ) (409 ) (373 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (2 ) (10 ) (7 ) voluntary pension contributions 4 23 (1) includes depreciation expense of $626 million, $635 million and $663 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and amortization of intangible assets of $528 million, $513 million and $517 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. (2) includes net proceeds of $28 million, $23 million and $39 million received for the sale/disposition of property, plant and equipment in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the net change in working capital decreased operating cash flow by $646 million in 2008. the components of this change are set forth in detail in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the significant changes in working capital included a $176 million increase in accounts receivable, a $138 million increase in inventories, and a $152 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities, primarily due to accrued warranties. during the second quarter of 2008, tyco released $2,960 million of funds placed in escrow during the third quarter of 2007 as well as $60 million of interest earned on those funds for the benefit of the class as stipulated in the court's final order related to the class action settlement. during 2008, we substantially completed the sale of our infrastructure services business for net cash proceeds of $396 million, sold 100% of the stock of eteo for $338 million in net cash proceeds, sold ancon building products for $171 million in net cash proceeds, and completed the sale of ndc for $49 million in net cash proceeds. we continue to fund capital expenditures to improve the cost structure of our businesses, to invest in new processes and technology, and to maintain high quality production standards. the level of capital expenditures in 2009 is expected to exceed spending levels in 2008 of $734 million and is also expected to exceed depreciation of $626 million. 66 on july 10, 2008, tyco's board of directors approved a $1.0 billion share repurchase program under which we have repurchased 2.5 million common shares for $100 million. we also repurchased 23.1 million common shares for $944 million in 2008 completing the 2007 $1.0 billion share repurchase program. during 2007, we repurchased 1.3 million common shares for $56 million under the 2007 $1.0 billion share repurchase program as well as 5 million common shares for $659 million completing the 2006 $2.0 billion share repurchase program. during 2006, we repurchased 13 million common shares for $1.3 billion under the 2006 $2.0 billion share repurchase program as well as 11 million common shares for $1.2 billion completing the 2005 $1.5 billion share repurchase program. during the first quarter of 2007, we launched a company-wide restructuring program, which as of september 26, 2008 has been substantially completed. since the inception of this program, we have incurred charges of $395 million relating to this program. during 2008, 2007 and 2006 we paid out $187 million, $70 million and $32 million, respectively, in cash related to restructuring activities. we have identified additional opportunities for cost savings from restructuring activities in fiscal 2009 and expect to incur restructuring charges of approximately $50 million in fiscal 2009. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our restructuring activities. income taxes paid, net of refunds, related to continuing operations was $501 million, $649 million, and $316 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. during 2008, 2007 and 2006, tyco paid $376 million, $409 million and $373 million of cash, respectively, to acquire approximately 370,000, 415,000 and 401,000 customer contracts for electronic security services through the adt dealer program. during 2008, 2007 and 2006, we paid $2 million, $10 million and $7 million, respectively, in cash for purchase accounting and holdback liabilities. holdback liabilities represent a portion of the purchase price withheld from the seller pending finalization of the acquisition balance sheet and other contingencies. at september 26, 2008 holdback liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets were $18 million, which are included in other liabilities. at september 26, 2008, $12 million of acquisition liabilities remained on our consolidated balance sheets, of which $3 million are included in accrued and other current liabilities and $9 million are included in other liabilities. as previously discussed, effective june 29, 2007, we completed the separation. in connection with the separation, we paid $68 million, $349 million and $96 million in separation costs during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. of these amounts, $36 million, $256 million and $77 million were included in cash flows from discontinued operating activities, respectively. as previously discussed, we continue to be active in refining our portfolio and assessing the strategic fit of our various businesses. as a result, we will continue to divest of businesses that do not align with our overall strategy. we plan to use the expected proceeds from these sales, as well as the cash generated by our operations, to continue to make investments in our businesses that are intended to grow revenue and improve productivity, including our restructuring actions. we expect to also use cash to selectively pursue acquisitions. additionally, we expect to continue to return any excess cash to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividend payments. pursuant to our share repurchase program, we may repurchase tyco shares from time to time in open market purchases at prevailing market prices, in negotiated transactions off the market, or pursuant to an approved 10b5-1 trading plan in accordance with applicable regulations. management believes that cash generated by or available to us should be sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, including quarterly dividend payments. the company intends to repurchase additional shares under its existing $1.0 billion share repurchase program depending on credit market conditions, macroeconomic factors and expectations regarding future cash flows. 67 capitalization shareholders' equity was $15.5 billion or $32.41 per share, at september 26, 2008, compared to $15.6 billion or $31.50 per share, at september 28, 2007. shareholders' equity did not change significantly in 2008 due to net income of $1,553 million, which was offset by the repurchase of common shares by subsidiary of $854 million, the repurchase of common shares held in treasury of $192 million, dividends declared of $313 million and foreign currency exchange rates of $307 million. total debt was $4.3 billion at september 26, 2008, as compared to $4.5 billion at september 28, 2007. total debt as a percentage of capitalization (total debt and shareholders' equity) was 22% at both september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively. our cash balance decreased to $1.5 billion at september 26, 2008, as compared to $1.9 billion at september 28, 2007. this decrease in cash was primarily due to the repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures, accounts purchased from the adt dealer network, business acquisitions and dividends paid. this decrease was offset by cash generated by the operating segments and proceeds from divestitures. debt tenders in connection with the settlement of litigation arising from the separation related to our public debt, on june 3, 2008 we, along with our finance subsidiary tyco international finance s.a. ("tifsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company and successor company to tyco international group s.a. ("tigsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company organized under the laws of luxembourg, consummated consent solicitations and exchange offers related to certain series of debt issued under the 1998 and 2003 indentures. in connection with the exchange offers, we issued $422 million principal amount of 7.0% notes due 2019 in exchange for an equal principal amount of 7.0% notes due 2028 and $707 million principal amount of 6.875% notes due 2021 in exchange for an equal principal amount of 6.875% notes due 2029. in connection with the consent solicitations, holders of our 6.0% notes due 2013, 6.125% notes due 2008, 6.125% notes due 2009, 6.75% notes due 2011, 6.375% notes due 2011, 7.0% notes due 2028 and 6.875% notes due 2029 collectively received consent payments totaling $250 million. the terms of the consent and exchange offers were evaluated as a debt modification in accordance with eitf no. 96-19, "debtor's accounting for a modification or exchange of debt instruments," and it was determined that the 7.0% notes due 2028 and the 6.875% notes due 2029 were extinguished because the cash flows of the new bonds as compared to the original bonds were substantially modified. as a result, the new bonds and the 7.0% notes due 2028 and the 6.875% notes due 2029 that were not tendered for exchange were recorded at their fair value upon completion of the exchange offers. in determining fair value, we measured the bonds as if they were an initial issuance to the public. this was done by obtaining effective yield data derived from comparable pricing received from the issuance of bonds with similar ratings and covenants by large public companies. in connection with the consent solicitations and exchange offers, we recorded a $222 million charge to other expense, net as a loss on extinguishment of debt. this charge is comprised of the consent payments related to the extinguished bonds (notes due 2028 and 2029), premium on the exchanged bonds which represents the difference between the fair value and the book value of the extinguished bonds and the write-off of the original unamortized debt issuance costs as well as fees paid to third parties associated with the bonds that were not deemed extinguished. the remaining portion of the consent payment and issuance costs will be amortized over the remaining life of the bonds. in may 2008, tifsa commenced issuing commercial paper to u.s. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers. borrowings under the commercial paper program are 68 available for general corporate purposes. as of september 26, 2008, tifsa had $116 million of commercial paper outstanding, which bore interest at an average rate of 2.95%. during the year ended september 28, 2007, we recorded a $259 million charge to other expense, net for the loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the debt tender offers in connection with the separation. bank and revolving credit facilities on june 24, 2008, tyco and tifsa entered into a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit agreement with citibank, n.a., as administrative agent for the lenders party thereto. this credit agreement has a three-year term. borrowings under this agreement have a variable interest rate based on libor or an alternate base rate. the margin over libor can vary based on changes in our credit rating and facility utilization. together with the existing $1.25 billion five-year senior revolving credit agreement, dated as of april 25, 2007, our total commitments under these facilities increased to $1.75 billion. these revolving credit facilities will be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. as of september 26, 2008, there was $286 million drawn under these unsecured revolving credit facilities and as of november 12, 2008 we had $686 million outstanding. as discussed above, with the exception of the $60 million in commitments from lehman, we believe that all of the lenders under our revolving credit facility are capable of meeting any borrowing requests tifsa may make. on april 25, 2007, we, certain of our subsidiaries and a syndicate of banks entered into a 364-day unsecured bridge loan facility. on october 1, 2007, the commitments with respect to the unused portion of our unsecured bridge loan facility expired, but were subsequently renewed before being terminated in connection with the overall facility's termination in june 2008. the unsecured bridge loan facility provided us with sufficient liquidity to repay our outstanding public debt with borrowings of up to $4.0 billion. the facility could only be used to repay, settle or otherwise extinguish such public debt, which was the subject of ongoing litigation between us and the trustee for such public debt. in june 2008, we settled this litigation and terminated this facility. in connection with the facility termination, we recorded a $36 million charge to other expense, net to write-off unamortized debt issuance costs. on june 21, 2007, tyco and tifsa entered into a $500 million letter of credit facility, with citibank n.a. as administrative agent, that was scheduled to expire on june 15, 2008. the facility provided for the issuance of letters of credit supported by a related line of credit facility. effective june 6, 2008, this facility and all commitments under this facility were terminated. tifsa's bank credit agreements contain customary terms and conditions, and financial covenants that limit the ratio of our debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and that limit our ability to incur subsidiary debt or grant liens on our property. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our business. convertible debentures as of september 28, 2007, tifsa had $21 million outstanding of its 3.125% convertible senior debentures due 2023 with a 2015 put option ("the 3.125% convertible senior debentures"). on august 25, 2008, we delivered to holders a notice of redemption of our $19 million remaining principal amount of the 3.125% convertible senior debentures. these debentures were originally convertible into tyco shares. as a result of the separation transactions undertaken by us in 2007, these debentures became convertible into common shares of tyco international ltd., covidien ltd. and tyco electronics ltd. the 3.125% convertible debentures were converted into 11.496 common shares of each of the three separate companies, per $1,000 principal amount. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we issued 217,589 shares of tyco common stock and obtained shares of covidien ltd. and tyco electronics in connection with the redemption of the 3.125% convertible senior debentures. 69 additionally in the fourth quarter, we recorded a gain of $6 million upon exercise of the conversion option by holders (see note 15 in the consolidated financial statements). the last redemption date was september 25, 2008. any notes outstanding after that date were redeemed with available cash. as of september 26, 2008, no amounts remain outstanding under the 3.125% convertible senior debentures. the following tables detail our long-term and short-term debt ratings at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007: long-term debt ratings 2008 2007 moody's baa1 baa1 standard &amp; poor's bbb+ bbb fitch bbb+ bbb short-term debt ratings 2008 2007 moody's p-2 n/a standard &amp; poor's a-2 n/a fitch f2 n/a the security ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. commitments and contingencies contractual obligations contractual obligations and commitments for principal debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and other obligations at september 26, 2008 is as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total debt (1) $ 648 $ 1 $ 517 $ 1,135 $ 1 $ 1,831 $ 4,133 interest payments (2) 225 209 192 148 120 619 1,513 capital leases (3) 23 21 22 4 6 43 119 operating leases 248 201 166 108 61 140 924 purchase obligations (4) 53 3 56 total contractual cash obligations (5)(6) $ 1,197 $ 435 $ 897 $ 1,395 $ 188 $ 2,633 $ 6,745 (1) excludes debt discount and swap activity. includes amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facilities. included in the amount of debt maturing in 2009 is $116 million of commercial paper borrowings the company classified as long-term at september 26, 2008. this debt matures in 2009, but has been classified as long-term on the consolidated balance sheet as settlement of this debt is not expected to require the use of working capital in the next year and as the company has both the intent and the ability to refinance this debt on a long-term basis. (2) interest payments consist of interest on our fixed interest rate debt and excludes interest on our variable interest rate debt. (3) excludes interest. (4) purchase obligations consist of commitments for purchases of good and services. (5) other long-term liabilities primarily consist of the following: pension and postretirement costs, income taxes, warranty and environmental liabilities and are excluded from this table. we are unable to estimate the timing of payment for these items due to the inherent uncertainties of obligations of this type. the minimum required contributions to our pension plans are expected to be approximately $63 million in 2009 and we expect to pay $7 million in 2009 related to postretirement benefit plans. (6) during the first quarter of 2008, we adopted the provisions of fin no. 48. as of september 26, 2008, we recorded gross unrecognized tax benefits of $369 million and gross interest and penalties of $49 million, both of which are classified as non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet as payment is not expected within one year. at this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing for such payments in future years; therefore, such amounts have been excluded from the above contractual obligation table. 70 our 6.125% public notes due in 2008 and 2009 of $300 million and $215 million mature in the first and second quarter of fiscal year 2009, respectively. based on market conditions and our liquidity needs, we intend to pay down these maturities of such debt either by drawing down on our existing credit facility or accessing the debt market on terms that are acceptable to the company. as of november 12, 2008, the total outstanding balance under our credit facility was $686 million. on june 24, 2008, tyco and tifsa entered into a new $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit agreement with citibank, n.a. as administrative agent for the lenders party therto. this credit agreement has a three-year term. borrowings under this agreement have a variable interest rate based on libor or an alternate base rate. the margin over libor can vary based on changes in our credit rating and facility utilization. together with the existing $1.25 billion five-year senior revolving credit agreement, dated as of april 25, 2007, our total commitments under these facilities increased to $1.75 billion. as discussed above, as of september 26, 2008, we had total commitments of $1.75 billion under our revolving credit facilities, $500 million of which matures on june 24, 2011 and $1.25 billion of which matures on april 25, 2012. additionally, $60 million worth of commitments under our $1.25 billion facility are held by lehman which has defaulted on it obligations under the agreement. as of september 26, 2008, $286 million was outstanding under our revolving credit facilities, and as of november 12, 2008, $686 million was outstanding. at september 26, 2008, we had total outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees of $633 million. in may 2008, tifsa commenced issuing commercial paper to u.s. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers. borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes. as of september 26, 2008, tifsa had $116 million of commercial paper outstanding which bore interest at an average rate of 2.95%. at september 26, 2008 we classified $116 million of short-term borrowings as long-term. settlement of this debt is not expected to require the use of working capital in the next year, as we have both the intent and the ability to refinance this debt on a long-term basis. in the normal course of business, we are liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in connection with the separation, we entered into a liability sharing agreement regarding certain class actions that were pending against tyco prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics are jointly and severally liable for the full amount of any judgments resulting from the actions subject to the agreement, which generally relate to legacy claims (including erisa, fcpa and securities claims). the separation and distribution agreement also provides that we will be responsible for 27%, covidien 42% and tyco electronics 31% of payments to resolve these matters, with costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingencies being shared equally among the parties. in addition, under the agreement, we will manage and control all the legal matters related to assumed contingent liabilities as described in the separation and distribution agreement, including the defense or settlement thereof, subject to certain limitations. 71 tyco has assumed 27%, covidien has assumed 42% and tyco electronics has assumed 31% of certain tyco pre-separation contingent and other corporate liabilities, which include securities class action litigation, employee retirement income security act ("erisa") class action litigation, certain legacy tax contingencies and any actions with respect to the spin-offs or the distributions made or brought by any third party. any amounts relating to these contingent and other corporate liabilities paid by tyco after the spin-offs that are subject to the allocation provisions of the separation and distribution agreement will be shared among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics pursuant to the same allocation ratio. as described in the separation and distribution agreement, tyco, tyco electronics and covidien are jointly and severally liable for all amounts relating to the previously disclosed securities class action settlement. all costs and expenses that tyco incurs in connection with the defense of such litigation, other than the amount of any judgment or settlement, which will be allocated in the manner described above, will be borne equally by covidien, tyco electronics and tyco. legal matters class actions for a discussion of contingencies related to tyco's securities class actions, class action settlement, erisa related litigation and tyco litigation against former senior management, litigation related to our public debt and various other legal matters, see item 3, legal proceedings. we are generally obligated to indemnify our directors and officers and our former directors and officers who are named as defendants in some or all of these matters to the extent required by bermuda law. while we may from time to time seek to engage plaintiff's counsel in settlement discussions, we are unable at this time to estimate what our ultimate liability in these matters may be, and it is possible that we will be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses, in excess of any insurance coverage, in aggregate amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. investigations for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to governmental investigations related to tyco, see item 3. legal proceedings subpoenas and document requests from governmental entities. we cannot predict when these investigations will be completed, nor can we predict what the results of these investigations may be. it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, lose the ability to conduct business with government entities or instrumentalities (which in turn could negatively impact our business with non-governmental customers) or suffer other penalties or adverse impacts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss, or range of possible loss, if any, that might result from an adverse resolution of these matters. environmental matters tyco is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's environmental matters, see item 1. business environmental matters and item 3. legal proceedings environmental matters. asbestos matters tyco and some of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. for a detailed discussion of tyco's contingencies related to these matters, see item 3. legal proceedings asbestos matters. 72 income taxes tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest have been assessed under fin 48 and recorded as appropriate. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's income taxes, see item 3. legal proceedings income tax matters. compliance matters tyco has received and responded to various allegations and other information that improper activities were conducted by tyco employees in recent years, in particular with respect to doj and sec investigations that have resulted in our performing a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices as they relate to the foreign corrupt practices act. for a detailed discussion of these contingencies and others related to tyco's compliance efforts, see item 3. legal proceedings compliance matters. other matters the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. backlog at september 26, 2008, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $9.7 billion, compared to a backlog of $9.0 billion at september 28, 2007. we expect that approximately 86% of our backlog at september 26, 2008 will be filled during 2009. backlog by segment at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 is as follows ($ in millions): 2008 2007 adt worldwide $ 6,177 $ 6,137 flow control 2,083 1,579 fire protection services 1,139 1,048 electrical and metal products 117 114 safety products 154 132 $ 9,670 $ 9,010 within adt worldwide, backlog increased primarily as a result of recurring revenue-in-force, which represents 12 months' fees for monitoring and maintenance services under contract in the security business. our total account base grew 1.6% year over year to 7.2 million accounts. the amount of recurring revenue-in-force at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 was $3.97 billion and $3.93 billion, respectively. flow control had increased bookings mostly in the asia-pacific and americas regions. backlog within fire protection services increased primarily as a result of increased orders in asia and north america. 73 off-balance sheet arrangements sale of accounts receivable certain of tyco's international businesses utilize the sale of accounts receivable as short-term financing mechanisms. the aggregate amount outstanding under the company's remaining international accounts receivable programs was $65 million, $76 million and $75 million at september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006, respectively. guarantees certain of the company's business segments have guaranteed the performance of third-parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. the terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from 2008 through the completion of such transactions. the guarantees would be triggered in the event of nonperformance and the potential exposure for nonperformance under the guarantees would not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are certain guarantees or indemnifications extended among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics in accordance with the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement. the guarantees primarily relate to certain contingent tax liabilities included in the tax sharing agreement. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the tax sharing agreement. at the time of the separation, tyco recorded a liability necessary to recognize the fair value of such guarantees and indemnifications in accordance with financial accounting standards board ("fasb") interpretation ("fin") no. 45, " guarantor's accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others. " in the absence of observable transactions for identical or similar guarantees, the company determined the fair value of these guarantees and indemnifications utilizing expected present value measurement techniques. significant assumptions utilized to determine fair value included determining a range of potential outcomes, assigning a probability weighting to each potential outcome and estimating the anticipated timing of resolution. the probability weighted outcomes were discounted using the company's incremental borrowing rate. the liability necessary to reflect the fair value of the guarantees and indemnifications under the tax sharing agreement is $554 million and $543 million, which is included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively. the guarantees primarily relate to certain contingent tax liabilities included in the tax sharing agreement. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the tax sharing agreement. in addition, tyco historically provided support in the form of financial and/or performance guarantees to various covidien and tyco electronics operating entities. in connection with the separation, the company worked with the guarantee counterparties to cancel or assign these guarantees to covidien or tyco electronics. to the extent these guarantees were not assigned prior to the separation date, tyco assumed primary liability on any remaining support. the estimated fair values of those obligations are $7 million, which are included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and were recorded in accordance with fin no. 45 with an offset to shareholders' equity on the separation date. in disposing of assets or businesses, the company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. the company has no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 74 the company has recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. see item 1. business environmental matters for a discussion of these liabilities. in the normal course of business, the company is liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company records estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty, see notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements. in 2001, a division of safety products initiated a voluntary replacement program ("vrp") associated with the acquisition of central sprinkler. the vrp relates to the replacement of certain o-ring seal sprinkler heads which were originally manufactured by central sprinkler prior to tyco's acquisition. under this program, the sprinkler heads are being replaced free of charge to property owners. in the third quarter of 2006, the company completed a comprehensive review of reported claims, recent claim rates and cost trends and further assessed the future of the program. the company determined that an additional liability was necessary in order to satisfy the company's obligation under the vrp. as a result, the company recorded a $100 million charge which was reflected in cost of sales. on may 1, 2007, the consumer products safety commission and the company announced an august 31, 2007 deadline for filing claims to participate in the vrp. the company will fulfill all valid claims for replacement of qualifying sprinklers received up to august 31, 2007. during the fourth quarter of 2007, the company further assessed the expected cost to complete the program in light of the most current claims data and determined that an additional accrual of $10 million was necessary to satisfy the estimated remaining obligation. the ultimate cost to complete the program will be impacted by a number of factors such as changes in material and labor costs, and the actual number of sprinkler heads replaced. actual results could differ from this estimate. settlements during 2008 include cash expenditures of $49 million related to the vrp. accounting pronouncements recently adopted accounting pronouncements in june 2006, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb") issued financial accounting standards board interpretation ("fin") no. 48, " accounting for uncertainty in income taxes an interpretation of fasb statement no. 109." this interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. fin no. 48 became effective for tyco in the first quarter of 2008. as a result of adopting fin no. 48, tyco increased its reserve for uncertain tax positions by $55 million and reduced its deferred tax assets by $24 million with a corresponding $79 million cumulative effect adjustment to shareholders' equity. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the adoption of fin no. 48. recently issued accounting pronouncements in may 2008, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 162, "the hierarchy of generally accepted accounting principles" (sfas no. 162). sfas no. 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements. sfas no. 162 is effective 60 days following the sec's approval of the public company accounting oversight board amendments to au section 411, "the meaning of present fairly in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles". the company does not expect that this standard will have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. in april 2008, the fasb issued staff position ("fsp") no. 142-3, "determination of the useful life of intangible assets". fsp no. 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset 75 under sfas no. 142, "goodwill and other intangible assets". fsp no. 142-3 is effective for tyco in the first quarter of 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact of fsp no. 142-3 on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. in march 2008, the fasb issued sfas no. 161, " disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. " sfas no. 161 is intended to improve financial reporting about derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced disclosures to enable investors to better understand their effects on an entity's results of operations, financial position or cash flows. the disclosure provisions of sfas no. 161 are effective for tyco in the second quarter of 2009. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas 141 (revised 2007), "business combinations." sfas no. 141r retains the underlying concepts of sfas no. 141 in that business combinations are still accounted for at fair value. however, the accounting for certain other aspects of business combinations will be affected. acquisition costs will generally be expensed as incurred. restructuring costs associated with a business combination will generally be expensed subsequent to the acquisition date. in-process research and development will be recorded at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible at the acquisition date until it is completed or abandoned and its useful life can be determined. changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and uncertain tax positions after the acquisition date will generally impact income tax expense. sfas no. 141r also expands required disclosures surrounding the nature and financial effects of business combinations. sfas no. 141r is effective, on a prospective basis, for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. in december 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 160, "noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements an amendment of arb no. 51". sfas no. 160 requires the recognition of a noncontrolling interest (minority interest prior to the adoption of sfas 160) as equity in the consolidated financial statements. the amount of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest should be included in consolidated net income on the face of the statement of income. sfas no. 160 also amends certain of accounting research bulletin no. 51's consolidation procedures in order to achieve consistency with the requirements of sfas no. 141r. the statement also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its noncontrolling interest. this statement is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company is currently assessing the impact of sfas no. 160 on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. in february 2007, the fasb issued sfas no. 159, " the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities ." sfas no. 159 permits an entity, on a contract-by-contract basis, to make an irrevocable election to account for certain types of financial instruments and warranty and insurance contracts at fair value, rather than historical cost, with changes in the fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recognized in earnings. sfas no. 159 is effective for tyco in the first quarter of 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 159 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. in september 2006, the fasb issued sfas no. 157, " fair value measurements ," which enhances existing guidance for measuring assets and liabilities at fair value. sfas no. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. in february 2008, the fasb issued fasb staff position no. 157-1, " application of fasb statement no. 157 to fasb statement no. 13 and other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurements for purposes of lease classification or measurement under statement 13 ", to exclude sfas no, 13, " accounting for leases" and other accounting pronouncements that address fair value measurements for purposes of lease classification or measurement under sfas no. 13, and fasb staff position no. 157-2, " effective date of fasb statement no 157 " that permits companies to partially defer the effective date of sfas no. 157 for one year for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. in october 2008, the fasb issued fasb staff position no. 157-3, " determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that asset is not active ", clarifies the application of sfas no. 157 for a financial 76 asset in an in active market. during the first quarter of 2009 the company elected to defer the adoption of sfas no. 157 for one year for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. sfas no. 157 is effective for tyco in the first quarter of 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact, if any, that sfas no. 157 will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. in september 2006, fasb issued sfas no. 158, " employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106 and 132(r) ." sfas no. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on the balance sheet and recognize as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. the company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of sfas no. 158 as of september 28, 2007. sfas no. 158 also requires companies to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of their fiscal year end. the company presently uses a measurement date of august 31st. the measurement date provisions become effective in fiscal 2009. the company is currently assessing the impact that sfas no. 158 measurement date provisions will have on the results of its operations, financial position or cash flows. in june 2008 the fasb ratified fasb staff position no. eitf 03-6-1, " determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities " (fsp no. eitf 03-6-1), which addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment awards are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, must be included in the earnings allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two-class method described in sfas no. 128, " earnings per share " (sfas no. 128). fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 requires that unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend-equivalents be treated as participating securities in calculating earnings per share. fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 is effective for tyco in fiscal 2010 and interim periods within those fiscal years, and shall be applied retrospectively to all prior periods. we are currently evaluating the effects, if any that fsp no. eitf 03-6-1 may have on earnings per share. forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the security and exchange commission ("sec"), or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, web casts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, product expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions; the demand for tyco's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which tyco competes; 77 changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigation and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations including its business operations outside the united states; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings; effect of income tax audit settlements; the ratings on our debt and our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including availability of funding sources and currency exchange rate fluctuations; availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials, including steel and copper; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and six sigma initiatives; potential further impairment of our goodwill and/or our long-lived assets; the impact of fluctuations in the price of tyco common shares; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. governmental laws and regulations; and the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the united states that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco's incorporation in bermuda or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its incorporation in bermuda. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the ordinary course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures we believe we are subject to. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, cross currency swaps, foreign currency options, and interest rate swaps. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having at least an a/a2 long-term debt rating. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. during fiscal year 2007, the company elected to change its presentation of market risk information from a tabular format to a disclosure based on the results of sensitivity analysis. management believes this method of presentation provides more useful information for assessing the company's overall 78 exposure to market risks. the results of our sensitivity analysis represent an estimate of reasonably possible outcomes based on hypothetical market conditions and are not necessarily indicative of actual results. foreign currency exposures we hedge our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and options. during 2008, our largest exposures to foreign exchange rates existed primarily with the british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign exchange contracts is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 26, 2008. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $57 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $69 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. previously, we hedged our investment in certain foreign operations. in december 2006, due to required changes to the legal entity structure to facilitate the separation, the company determined that it would no longer consider certain intercompany foreign currency transactions to be long-term investments. as a result, the related foreign currency transaction gains and losses on such investments were recorded in the income statement subsequent to this determination rather than in the currency translation component of shareholders' equity. forward contracts that were previously designated as hedges of these net investments continued to be used to manage this exposure but were no longer designated as net investment hedges. also in connection with the separation and the debt tender, the company re-designated its 6.125% euro denominated public notes due 2007 on march 29, 2007, its 5.5% euro denominated public notes due 2008 and its 6.5% british pound denominated public notes due 2031 on may 21, 2007, that had previously been considered as hedges of net investments in certain foreign operations. at september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, the company did not hedge its net investment in foreign operations, we had no net investment hedges and all of its outstanding borrowings were denominated in u.s. dollars. during 2008, we designated certain intercompany loans as permanent in nature, in the amount of $2.1 billion as of september 26, 2008. as a result, the company recorded $141 million of cumulative translation adjustment through accumulated other comprehensive income as of september 26, 2008 related to these loans. interest rate exposures our long-term debt portfolio primarily consists of fixed-rate instruments. historically, the company managed its exposure to interest rates by entering into interest rate and cross-currency swaps designated as fair value hedges. in assessing the potential risks related to movements in interest rates, we terminated the interest rate and cross-currency swaps in several tranches beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006. during the first quarter of 2007, we terminated the remaining contracts with a total notional amount of $0.6 billion, resulting in an aggregate terminated notional amount of $3.1 billion. the settlement of these swaps resulted in a net cash inflow of $63 million for the first quarter of 2007. since the interest rate swaps were designated as hedging instruments of outstanding debt, the related $32 million loss adjustment reported in 2007 to the carrying value of the related debt will be amortized over the remaining life of the related debt instruments. of this amount, $3 million and $18 million have been amortized in 2008 and 2007, respectively. in connection with the debt tender offer, $9 million of unamortized loss on interest rate swaps was accelerated and recorded in 2007 as a loss on retirement of debt and included in other expense, net (see note 13 to the consolidated financial 79 statements). at september 28, 2007, there were no interest rate swaps outstanding. during 2008, the company did not enter into any interest rate or cross-currency swaps, but may consider such strategies in the future. commodity exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of raw materials used in some of our products and may, in limited circumstances, enter into hedging contracts to manage those exposures. these exposures are monitored as an integral part of our risk management program. during 2008, the company did not hedge its exposure attributable to changes in commodity prices but may consider such strategies in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 10 risk factors risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters and item 3. legal proceedings. environmental matters we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. based upon our experience, current information regarding 9 table of contents known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $31 million to $85 million. as of september 25, 2009, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $40 million, of which $12 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $28 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. in view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. employees as of september 25, 2009, we employed approximately 106,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 38,000 are employed in the united states and 68,000 are outside the united states. approximately 31,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. available information tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. investors may read and copy any document that tyco files, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, dc 20549. investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec, from which investors can electronically access tyco's sec filings. our internet website is www.tyco.com . we make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, reports filed pursuant to section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the securities and exchange commission. as a result of the change of domicile, tyco is required to prepare swiss statutory financial statements, including swiss consolidated financial statements, on an annual basis. a copy of the swiss statutory financial statements will be distributed along with our annual report to shareholders, and all of the aforementioned reports will be made available to our shareholders upon their request. in addition, we have posted the charters for our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee, and nominating and governance committee, as well as our board governance principles and guide to ethical conduct, on our website under the heading "corporate citizenship governance." the annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. we will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and our liquidity. 10 table of contents risks relating to our businesses general economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain industries in which we operate. for example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial construction, the amount of discretionary consumer and business spending, and the performance of the housing market, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. recent economic weakness has adversely affected our businesses. for example, weakness in the north american and european non-residential construction markets have adversely impacted the system installation and service portion of our adt worldwide business, and weak global economic conditions have also adversely impacted our flow control business. continued weakness in the u.s. or global economies, or in the industries in which we operate, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we face intense competition in each of our businesses, and competitive challenges from lower cost manufacturers. if we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected. we operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service providers, both domestically and on a global basis. our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from alternative service providers around the world. key components of our competitive position are our ability to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. this requires continuous management focus on reducing costs, maintaining our competitive position and improving efficiency through cost controls, productivity enhancements and regular appraisal of our asset portfolio. if we are unable to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our operating results may be adversely affected. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; develop, acquire and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our products and services by adding innovative features that differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; and develop or acquire, manufacture and bring products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. our ability to develop or acquire new products and services based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. as a result, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance or their obsolescence could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 table of contents our adt business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business increased over the prior year to an average of 13.4% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2009, as compared to 12.9% for 2008, and 12.3% in 2007. although rates have not increased significantly in the last fiscal year, if attrition rates continue to trend upward, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if attrition rates were to rise, tyco may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. we have significant operations outside of the united states. we generated 52% of our net revenue outside of the united states in 2009. we expect net revenue generated outside of the united states to continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; changes in enacted tax laws; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and fluctuations in equity and revenues due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations or cash flows. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 12 table of contents our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2009 was 52% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the foreign countries where we sell our products and services compared to prior periods, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. this is most pronounced in our electrical and metal products segment, where declining copper and steel prices, along with volume declines, negatively affected our margins in 2009. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and 13 table of contents assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from third-parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. the company's culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular it strives to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. if we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, the company's operations could be adversely affected. in addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. the demand for experienced management in certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified employees. high turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact the company's operating results. we have recently recognized substantial impairment charges and may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. during the quarter ended march 27, 2009, we recognized aggregate goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $2.7 billion, resulting primarily from a slowdown in the commercial markets including the retailer end market in certain of our businesses; a decline in sales volume at our electrical and metal products segment; and downward revisions to forecasted results, restructuring actions and weaker industry outlooks. as a result, the company recognized an aggregate goodwill impairment of $2.6 billion ($2.6 billion after-tax) at six of our reporting units and intangible asset impairments of $64 million ($40 million after-tax) related to franchise rights in our adt worldwide segment and a tradename in our safety products segment. the company believes that our goodwill balance as of september 25, 2009 is recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. future impairment 14 table of contents charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are named as a defendant in a variety of litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products or services, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, litigation related to environmental matters, product liability litigation (including asbestos-related claims), litigation alleging violations of federal and state securities laws, employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. legislative action by the u.s. congress could materially, adversely affect us despite our change of domicile. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely, which would adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate despite our change of domicile. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our march 2009 change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subjected to increased taxation. also, various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to u.s. companies that move their locations abroad. we cannot assure you that moving our jurisdiction of incorporation to switzerland has eliminated the risk that these contract bans will apply to us. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the u.s. but are domiciled abroad. we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such criticism as a result of our domicile in switzerland. changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our adt worldwide business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals, and wireline telephone companies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt 15 table of contents operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in fcpa enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. furthermore, we have been subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries and agents in recent years in violation of the fcpa. we have reported to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations and our own internal investigations. we also retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to the fcpa, and we periodically provide updates to the sec and doj regarding our fcpa investigations and compliance activities. as a result, it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other civil or criminal penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to securities litigation or a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, business prospects or the market value of our stock. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the separation, primarily those relating to shareholder litigation and pre-separation income tax liabilities. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to legacy securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation plan or the separation brought by any third party, as well as pre-separation income tax liabilities. liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies are not allocated. 16 table of contents if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. we could face product liability and asbestos claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. we have been named in a significant number of lawsuits alleging damages based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos through the past distribution of asbestos-containing industrial products. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot assure you, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. 17 table of contents these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs of approximately $40 million, of which $12 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $28 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as of september 25, 2009. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. risks related to our liquidity recent disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in the company's subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our current needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009, global credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and continued uncertainty in the credit markets may make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets to meet our needs. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. these disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slow down in general economic activity that we expect to continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse affects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. 18 table of contents if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. risks relating to tax matters examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed for uncertain income tax positions have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to certain prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the 19 table of contents proposed adjustments. subsequently, the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2006. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that these adjustments will more-likely-than-not be accepted and, accordingly, has recorded such adjustments in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the irs review is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities, which result in cash payments, based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. if the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. the private letter rulings relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and tyco electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and tyco electronics common shares distributed 20 table of contents to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of tyco's securities. tyco international has changed its place of incorporation from bermuda to switzerland. because of differences between swiss law and bermuda law and differences between the governing documents of swiss and bermuda companies, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against tyco international based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states in switzerland. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon tyco or its directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. until january 1, 2011, tyco must declare and pay dividends in the form of reductions of registered share capital, which must be stated in swiss francs, to avoid adverse tax consequences. any currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and swiss francs will affect the dollar value of the dividends tyco pays. under swiss law, payments that are made to shareholders in the form of a return of registered share capital do not require the payment of withholding taxes to swiss authorities, while ordinary dividend payments require that such taxes be withheld. swiss corporate law requires that any payments made to shareholders in the form of a return of capital must be denominated in swiss francs. after january 1, 2011, dividend payments may be made out of contributed surplus without having to pay withholding taxes, and these payments can be denominated and paid in u.s. dollars. therefore, until 21 table of contents january 1, 2011, we expect to pay dividends in the form of a return of registered share capital, and these dividends will be denominated in swiss francs. we expect our transfer agent to make these dividend payments in u.s. dollars converted at the u.s. dollar to swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the payment date. as a result, shareholders will be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the swiss franc between the date used for purposes of calculating the swiss franc amount of any proposed capital reduction (which will typically be on or about the date of our annual general meeting) and the relevant payment date, which will not be shorter than two months and could be as long as a year. as a result of our change of domicile and the increase in the par value of our shares, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. in connection with the change of domicile, we significantly increased the par value of our shares. currently the par value of our shares is chf 8.07 (or approximately $7.87 based on the exchange rate in effect on november 2, 2009). under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value. as of november 2, 2009, the closing price of our ordinary shares on the nyse was $33.53. in the event there is a need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our registered shares is below our par value, we would need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our registered shares. we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval. obtaining shareholder approval also would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. if we were to receive shareholder approval to reduce the par value of our registered shares, the reduction would decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital, which may subject you to swiss withholding tax. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 12 table of contents our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2009 was 52% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. therefore, when the u.s. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the foreign countries where we sell our products and services compared to prior periods, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency. in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. this is most pronounced in our electrical and metal products segment, where declining copper and steel prices, along with volume declines, negatively affected our margins in 2009. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. any divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and 13 table of contents assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from third-parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. the company's culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular it strives to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. if we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, the company's operations could be adversely affected. in addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. the demand for experienced management in certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified employees. high turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact the company's operating results. we have recently recognized substantial impairment charges and may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. during the quarter ended march 27, 2009, we recognized aggregate goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $2.7 billion, resulting primarily from a slowdown in the commercial markets including the retailer end market in certain of our businesses; a decline in sales volume at our electrical and metal products segment; and downward revisions to forecasted results, restructuring actions and weaker industry outlooks. as a result, the company recognized an aggregate goodwill impairment of $2.6 billion ($2.6 billion after-tax) at six of our reporting units and intangible asset impairments of $64 million ($40 million after-tax) related to franchise rights in our adt worldwide segment and a tradename in our safety products segment. the company believes that our goodwill balance as of september 25, 2009 is recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. future impairment 14 table of contents charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are named as a defendant in a variety of litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are named as a defendant in a significant amount of litigation, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products or services, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, litigation related to environmental matters, product liability litigation (including asbestos-related claims), litigation alleging violations of federal and state securities laws, employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. legislative action by the u.s. congress could materially, adversely affect us despite our change of domicile. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely, which would adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate despite our change of domicile. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our march 2009 change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subjected to increased taxation. also, various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to u.s. companies that move their locations abroad. we cannot assure you that moving our jurisdiction of incorporation to switzerland has eliminated the risk that these contract bans will apply to us. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the u.s. but are domiciled abroad. we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such criticism as a result of our domicile in switzerland. changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our adt worldwide business relies heavily upon wireline telephone service to communicate signals, and wireline telephone companies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt 15 table of contents operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in fcpa enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. furthermore, we have been subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries and agents in recent years in violation of the fcpa. we have reported to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations and our own internal investigations. we also retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to the fcpa, and we periodically provide updates to the sec and doj regarding our fcpa investigations and compliance activities. as a result, it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other civil or criminal penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to securities litigation or a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, business prospects or the market value of our stock. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the separation, primarily those relating to shareholder litigation and pre-separation income tax liabilities. under the separation and distribution agreement and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to legacy securities litigation and any actions with respect to the separation plan or the separation brought by any third party, as well as pre-separation income tax liabilities. liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies are not allocated. 16 table of contents if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. we could face product liability and asbestos claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. we have been named in a significant number of lawsuits alleging damages based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos through the past distribution of asbestos-containing industrial products. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot assure you, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. 17 table of contents these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs of approximately $40 million, of which $12 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $28 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as of september 25, 2009. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. risks related to our liquidity recent disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in the company's subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our current needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009, global credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and continued uncertainty in the credit markets may make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets to meet our needs. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. these disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slow down in general economic activity that we expect to continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse affects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. 18 table of contents if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from our pending investigations and litigation could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including debt reduction or dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. risks relating to tax matters examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed for uncertain income tax positions have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to certain prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the 19 table of contents proposed adjustments. subsequently, the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2006. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that these adjustments will more-likely-than-not be accepted and, accordingly, has recorded such adjustments in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the irs review is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities, which result in cash payments, based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of u.s. income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. if the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. the private letter rulings relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and tyco electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and tyco electronics common shares distributed 20 table of contents to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of tyco's securities. tyco international has changed its place of incorporation from bermuda to switzerland. because of differences between swiss law and bermuda law and differences between the governing documents of swiss and bermuda companies, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against tyco international based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states in switzerland. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon tyco or its directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. until january 1, 2011, tyco must declare and pay dividends in the form of reductions of registered share capital, which must be stated in swiss francs, to avoid adverse tax consequences. any currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and swiss francs will affect the dollar value of the dividends tyco pays. under swiss law, payments that are made to shareholders in the form of a return of registered share capital do not require the payment of withholding taxes to swiss authorities, while ordinary dividend payments require that such taxes be withheld. swiss corporate law requires that any payments made to shareholders in the form of a return of capital must be denominated in swiss francs. after january 1, 2011, dividend payments may be made out of contributed surplus without having to pay withholding taxes, and these payments can be denominated and paid in u.s. dollars. therefore, until 21 table of contents january 1, 2011, we expect to pay dividends in the form of a return of registered share capital, and these dividends will be denominated in swiss francs. we expect our transfer agent to make these dividend payments in u.s. dollars converted at the u.s. dollar to swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the payment date. as a result, shareholders will be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the swiss franc between the date used for purposes of calculating the swiss franc amount of any proposed capital reduction (which will typically be on or about the date of our annual general meeting) and the relevant payment date, which will not be shorter than two months and could be as long as a year. as a result of our change of domicile and the increase in the par value of our shares, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. in connection with the change of domicile, we significantly increased the par value of our shares. currently the par value of our shares is chf 8.07 (or approximately $7.87 based on the exchange rate in effect on november 2, 2009). under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value. as of november 2, 2009, the closing price of our ordinary shares on the nyse was $33.53. in the event there is a need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our registered shares is below our par value, we would need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our registered shares. we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval. obtaining shareholder approval also would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. if we were to receive shareholder approval to reduce the par value of our registered shares, the reduction would decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital, which may subject you to swiss withholding tax. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties our operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world aggregating approximately 34 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately 14 million square feet are owned and approximately 20 million square feet are leased. these facilities house manufacturing, distribution and warehousing operations, as well as sales and marketing, engineering and administrative offices. adt worldwide operates through a network of offices and service facilities located in north america, central america, south america, europe, the middle east, the asia-pacific region and south africa. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 1 million square feet are owned and 5 million square feet are leased. flow control has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 11 million square feet, of which 6 million square feet are owned and 5 million square feet are leased. fire protection services operates through a network of offices located in north america, central america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 5 million square feet, all of which are leased. electrical and metal products has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 4 million square feet are owned and 2 million square feet are leased. safety products operates through a network of offices located in north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. our safety products manufacturing facilities, warehouses and 22 table of contents distribution centers are located in north america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 3 million square feet are owned and 3 million square feet are leased. in the opinion of management, our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. we do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. see note 15 to consolidated financial statements for a description of our lease obligations. item 3. legal proceedings in the normal course of business, we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, including product and general liability matters, environmental matters, patent infringement claims, employment disputes, disputes on agreements and other commercial disputes. in connection with the separation, we entered into a liability sharing agreement regarding certain legal actions that were pending against tyco prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics are jointly and severally liable for the full amount of any judgments resulting from the actions subject to the agreement, which generally relate to legacy matters that are not specific to the business operations of any of the companies. the separation and distribution agreement also provides that we will be responsible for 27%, covidien 42% and tyco electronics 31% of payments to resolve these matters, with costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingencies being shared equally among the parties. in addition, under the agreement, we will manage and control all the legal matters related to assumed contingent liabilities as described in the separation and distribution agreement, including the defense or settlement thereof, subject to certain limitations. additionally, at the time of the separation, the company, covidien and tyco electronics agreed to allocate responsibility for certain legacy tax claims pursuant to the same formula under the tax sharing agreement. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our tax sharing agreement. class action settlement and legacy securities matters as previously reported, tyco, and some members of the company's former senior corporate management were named as defendants in a number of lawsuits alleging violations of the disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. in june 2007 the company settled 32 purported securities class action lawsuits arising from actions alleged to have been taken by prior management for $2.975 billion. of this amount, the company contributed $803 million, representing its share under the separation and distribution agreement. the june 2007 class action settlement did not purport to resolve all legacy securities cases, and several remain outstanding, the most significant of which is stumpf v. tyco international ltd. , which is a class action lawsuit in which the plaintiffs allege that tyco, among others, violated the disclosure provisions of the federal securities laws. the matter arises from tyco's july 2000 initial public offering of common stock of tycom inc., and alleges that the tycom registration statement and prospectus relating to the sale of common stock were inaccurate, misleading and failed to disclose facts necessary to make the registration statement and prospectus not misleading. the complaint further alleges the defendants violated securities laws by making materially false and misleading statements and omissions concerning, among other things, executive compensation, tycom's business prospects and tyco's and tycom's finances. the matter is currently in the pre-trial stages of litigation. in the first half of fiscal 2009, the company settled a number of legal matters stemming from alleged violations of federal securities laws committed by former senior management, including several lawsuits from plaintiffs that had opted out of the june 2007 class action settlement, for an aggregate amount of approximately $90 million. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the 23 table of contents company's share of this amount was approximately $24 million, with covidien and tyco electronics responsible for approximately $38 million and $28 million, respectively. during the second quarter of 2009, the company concluded that its best estimate of probable loss for the legacy securities matters outstanding at the time was $375 million in the aggregate, which the company recorded as a liability in accrued and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet as of march 27, 2009. due to the sharing provisions in the separation and distribution agreement described above, the company also recorded receivables from covidien and tyco electronics in the amounts of $158 million and $116 million, respectively, which were recorded in other current assets in the company's consolidated balance sheet as of march 27, 2009. as a result, the company recorded a net charge of $101 million related to legacy securities matters during the quarter ended march 27, 2009 in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. in the second half of fiscal 2009, the company agreed to settle with all of the remaining plaintiffs that had opted-out of the class action settlement as well as plaintiffs who had brought employee retirement income security act ("erisa") related claims for a total of $271 million. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the company's share of the settlement amount was approximately $73 million, with covidien and tyco electronics responsible for approximately $114 million and $84 million, respectively. this settlement activity did not result in the company recording a charge to its consolidated statements of operations as the company had established a reserve for its best estimate of the amount of loss during the second quarter of 2009 as discussed above. the company continues to believe that the accrual remaining as of september 25, 2009 is its best estimate for the remaining unresolved claims. although the company has reserved its best estimate of probable loss related to unresolved legacy securities claims, their ultimate resolution could differ from this estimate and could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition to the stumpf matter, tyco is a party to several lawsuits based on alleged violations of federal securities laws, fraud and negligence committed by former management. these previously reported matters consist of jasin v. tyco international ltd., et al. , an action brought by a pro se plaintiff, hall v. kozlowski, et al , an action brought by a pro se plaintiff relating to the plaintiff's employment, 401(k), pension plans and ownership of tyco common stock, and several affirmative actions brought by tyco against messrs. kozlowski, swartz and walsh, former executives and a director of tyco. in connection with our affirmative actions, messrs. kozlowski and swartz have made counterclaims seeking amounts allegedly due in connection with the former executives' compensation and retention arrangements and under erisa, and mr. walsh has made claims alleging that tyco is required to indemnify him for his defense costs arising from his role as a tyco director. tyco intends to vigorously defend each of these actions and does not believe that the ultimate outcome of any of these matters will have a material adverse affect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. under the terms of the separation and distribution agreement, each of tyco, covidien and tyco electronics are jointly and severally liable for the full amount of any legacy securities matters (excluding the counter-claims brought by former executives and a director described above.) environmental matters tyco is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to known environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. as of september 25, 2009, tyco concluded that it was probable that it would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $31 million to $85 million. as of september 25, 2009, tyco concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately 24 table of contents $40 million, of which $12 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $28 million is included in other liabilities in tyco's consolidated balance sheet. in view of the company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters, the company believes that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. asbestos matters the company and certain of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in bodily injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third-parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. while the company has observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims, a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed by the courts. the company's strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, where appropriate, settling suits before trial. although a large percentage of litigated suits have been dismissed, the company cannot predict the extent to which it will be successful in resolving lawsuits in the future. of the lawsuits that have proceeded to trial since 2005, the company has won or settled all but one case, with that one case returning an adverse jury verdict for approximately $7.7 million, which included both compensatory and punitive damages. the company has appealed the verdict and believes that it will ultimately be overturned. as of september 25, 2009, there were 4,200 lawsuits pending against the company and its subsidiaries. each lawsuit typically includes several claims, and the company has determined that it had 5,509, 6,569 and 6,461 claims outstanding as of september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively. these amounts reflect adjustments for claims that are not actively being prosecuted, identify incorrect defendants or are duplicative of other actions. for a detailed discussion of asbestos-related matters, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. income tax matters the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest that management has assessed for uncertain income tax positions have been recorded through the income tax provision, equity or goodwill, as appropriate. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. in 2004, in connection with the irs audit of the 1997 through 2000 years, the company submitted to the irs proposed adjustments to certain prior period u.s. federal income tax returns resulting in a reduction in the taxable income previously filed. during 2006, the irs accepted substantially all of the proposed adjustments. subsequently, the company developed proposed amendments to u.s. federal income tax returns for additional periods through 2006. on the basis of previously accepted amendments, the company has determined that these adjustments will more-likely-than-not be accepted and, accordingly, has recorded such adjustments in the consolidated financial statements. such adjustments did not have a material impact on the company's financial condition, results of 25 table of contents operations or cash flows. while the final adjustments cannot be determined until the irs review is completed, the company believes that any resulting adjustments will not have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. for a detailed discussion of income tax matters, see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. compliance matters as previously reported in our periodic filings, the company has received and responded to various allegations and other information that certain improper payments were made by our subsidiaries and agents in recent years. for example, two subsidiaries in our flow control business in italy have been charged, along with numerous other parties, in connection with the milan public prosecutor's investigation into allegedly improper payments made to certain italian entities, and we have reported to german authorities potentially improper conduct involving agents retained by our emea water business. we have reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that we have taken in response to these allegations and its internal investigations. we also informed the doj and the sec that we retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), and that we would continue to make periodic progress reports to these agencies. we have and will continue to communicate with the doj and sec to provide updates on the baseline review and follow-up investigations, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper payments identified by us in the course of our ongoing compliance activities. the baseline review revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of these matters and other allegations reported to regulatory and law enforcement authorities and therefore cannot estimate the range of potential loss or extent of risk, if any, that may result from an adverse resolution of these matters. however, it is possible that we may be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. covidien and tyco electronics agreed, in connection with the separation, to cooperate with the company in its response regarding these matters. any judgment required to be paid or settlement or other cost incurred by the company in connection with the fcpa investigations would be subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, which assigned liabilities primarily related to the former healthcare and electronics businesses of tyco to covidien or tyco electronics, respectively, and provides that tyco will retain liabilities primarily related to its continuing operations. any liabilities not primarily related to a particular business will be shared equally among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics. the german federal cartel office ("fco") charged in early 2007 that certain german subsidiaries in the company's flow control business have engaged in anti-competitive practices, in particular with regard to its hydrant, valve, street box and fittings business. the company investigated this matter and determined that the conduct may have violated german anti-trust law. the company is cooperating with the fco in its investigation of this violation, which is ongoing. the company cannot estimate the range of potential loss that may result from this violation. it is possible that the company may be subject to civil or criminal proceedings and may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. erisa partial withdrawal liability assessment and demand on june 8, 2007, simplexgrinnell received a notice alleging that it had partially withdrawn from the national automatic sprinkler industry pension fund (the "fund"). under title iv of erisa, if 26 table of contents the fund can prove that an employer completely or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan such as the fund, the employer is liable for withdrawal liability equal to its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits. the alleged withdrawal results from a 1994 labor dispute between grinnell fire protection systems, simplexgrinnell's predecessor, and road sprinkler fitters local union no. 669. erisa requires that payment of withdrawal liability be made in full or in quarterly installments commencing upon receipt of a liability assessment from the plan. a plan's assessment of withdrawal liability generally may be challenged only in arbitration, and erisa requires that quarterly payments must continue to be made during the pendency of the arbitration. if the employer prevails in arbitration (and any subsequent court appeals), its quarterly withdrawal liability payments are refunded with interest. the fund's total withdrawal liability assessment against simplexgrinnell is approximately $25 million. the quarterly withdrawal liability payments are $1.1 million, $11 million of which have been paid to date. while the ultimate outcome is uncertain, simplexgrinnell believes that it has strong arguments that no withdrawal liability is owed to the fund, and it plans to vigorously defend against the fund's withdrawal liability assessment. the matter is currently in arbitration. the company has made no provision for this contingency and believes that its quarterly payments are recoverable. other matters as previously reported, in 2002, the sec's division of enforcement conducted an investigation related to past accounting practices for dealer connect fees that adt had charged to its authorized dealers upon purchasing customer accounts. the investigation related to accounting practices employed by our former management, which were discontinued in 2003. although we settled with the sec in 2006, a number of former dealers and related parties have filed lawsuits against us, including a class action lawsuit filed in the district court of arapahoe county, colorado, alleging breach of contract and other claims related to adt's decision to terminate certain authorized dealers in 2002 and 2003. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these lawsuits, we do not believe these claims will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition to the foregoing, we are subject to claims and suits, including from time to time, contractual disputes and product and general liability claims incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. with respect to many of these claims, we either self-insure or maintain insurance through third-parties, with varying deductibles. while the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of any such proceedings, whether the underlying claims are covered by insurance or not, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows beyond amounts recorded for such matters. item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders none. 27 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the number of registered holders of tyco's common shares as of november 6, 2009 was 25,590. tyco common shares are listed and traded on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbol "tyc." the following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of tyco common shares as reported by the nyse, and the dividends declared on tyco common shares, for the quarterly periods presented below. effective march 17, 2009, tyco changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from bermuda to the canton of schaffhausen, switzerland. in connection with the change of domicile, the par value of tyco's common shares increased from $0.80 per share to 8.53 swiss francs (chf) per share (or $7.21 based on the exchange rate in effect on march 17, 2009). the change of domicile was approved at a special general meeting of shareholders held on march 12, 2009. the following steps occurred in connection with the change of domicile, which did not result in a change to total shareholders' equity: (1) approximately 21 million shares held directly or indirectly in treasury were cancelled; (2) the par value of common shares was increased from $0.80 to chf 8.53 through an approximate 1-for-9 reverse share split, followed by the issuance of approximately eight fully paid up shares so that the same number of shares were outstanding before and after the change of domicile, which reduced share premium and increased common shares; and (3) the remaining amount of share premium was eliminated with a corresponding increase to contributed surplus. year ended september 25, 2009 year ended september 26, 2008 market price range market price range dividends declared per common share (1) dividends declared per common share quarter high low high low first $ 35.02 $ 15.65 $ 0.20 $ 46.66 $ 37.88 $ 0.15 second 24.57 17.43 0.21 44.85 33.72 0.15 third 28.86 18.88 0.21 47.41 40.08 0.15 fourth 34.87 25.55 0.22 45.15 36.37 0.20 $ 0.84 $ 0.65 (1) the dividends declared for the second through fourth quarters of 2009, are the u.s. dollar equivalent of chf 0.23 converted at the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the payment dates. prior to the change of domicile, on december 4, 2008, tyco's board of directors declared a quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of $0.20 per share, which was paid on february 2, 2009 to shareholders of record on january 5, 2009. subsequent to the change of domicile, on march 12, 2009 tyco's shareholders approved an annual dividend of chf 0.93 to be paid out of registered share capital in four quarterly installments. on march 12, 2009 and may 7, 2009 tyco's board of directors declared the first and second installments of the quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of $0.21 which were paid on may 27, 2009 and august 26, 2009, respectively, to shareholders of record on april 30, 3009 and july 31, 2009, respectively. on september 10, 2009, tyco's board of directors declared the third installment of the quarterly dividend on the company's common shares of chf 0.23 per share (or $0.22 per share converted at the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate as of october 30, 2009). this dividend is payable on november 24, 28 table of contents 2009 to shareholders of record on october 30, 2009 and will be converted at the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate in effect shortly before the payment date. dividend policy pursuant to swiss law, dividend payments made prior to january 1, 2011 are subject to swiss withholding taxes unless made in the form of a return of capital from our registered share capital. as a result, we intend to first pay dividends in the form of a reduction of registered share capital, denominated in swiss francs, until at least january 1, 2011. however, we expect to actually pay dividends in u.s. dollars based on exchange rates in effect shortly before the payment date. fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to the swiss franc between the date the dividend is declared and paid will increase or decrease the u.s. dollar amount required to be paid. we manage the potential variability in cash flows associated with the dividend payments by entering into derivative financial instruments used as economic hedges of the underlying risk. after january 1, 2011, we expect to make dividend payments in the form of a reduction in contributed surplus, which also may be made free of swiss withholding taxes. we expect to obtain shareholder approval of an annual dividend amount each year at our annual general meeting, and we expect to distribute the approved dividend amount in four quarterly installments, the timing of which will be determined by our board of directors. the timing, declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common shares will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, the capital requirements of our businesses, industry practice and any other relevant factors. future dividends will be proposed by our board of directors and, as stated above, require shareholder approval. dividends paid from contributed surplus also require shareholder approval, but may be denominated and paid in u.s. dollars. 29 table of contents performance graph set forth below is a graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on tyco's common shares against the cumulative return on the s&amp;p 500 index, dow jones u.s. industrials index and the s&amp;p 500 industrials index, assuming investment of $100 on september 30, 2004, including the reinvestment of dividends. the graph shows the cumulative total return as of the fiscal years ended september 30, 2005, september 29, 2006, september 28, 2007, september 26, 2008 and september 25, 2009. in july 2007, tyco began using performance share units as a component of its annual equity incentive program. the benchmark against which tyco's total shareholder return is measured is the s&amp;p 500 industrials index. as a result, the s&amp;p 500 industrials index will replace the dow jones u.s. industrials index in the performance graph below. total return to shareholders (includes reinvestment of dividends) annual return percentage years ended company/index 9/05 9/06 9/07 9/08 9/09 tyco international ltd. (8.01 ) 1.59 2.61 (17.67 ) (3.58 ) s&amp;p 500 index 12.25 10.79 16.44 (18.85 ) (11.56 ) s&amp;p 500 industrials index 13.03 8.34 20.96 (15.16 ) (8.00 ) dow jones u.s. industrials index 2.38 7.14 24.01 (32.60 ) (20.46 ) 30 table of contents 9/04 9/05 9/06 9/07 9/08 9/09 tyco international ltd. $ 100.00 $ 91.99 $ 93.46 $ 95.90 $ 78.96 $ 76.13 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 100.00 112.25 124.36 144.81 117.51 103.92 s&amp;p industrials 100.00 113.03 122.46 148.13 125.68 115.62 dow jones u.s. industrials index 100.00 102.38 109.69 136.03 91.68 72.92 equity compensation plan information the following table provides information as of september 25, 2009 with respect to tyco's common shares issuable under its equity compensation plans: equity compensation plan plan category number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options (a) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options (b) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) equity compensation plans approved by security holders: 2004 stock and incentive plan (1) 22,747,724 $ 43.99 26,477,465 ltip plan (2) 4,223,461 36.71 espp (3) 2,919,845 26,971,185 29,397,310 equity compensation plans not approved by security holders: ltip ii plan (4) 4,943,610 $ 53.78 saye (5) 375,906 32.82 7,024,865 5,319,516 7,024,865 total 32,290,701 36,422,175 (1) the tyco international ltd. 2004 stock and incentive plan provides for the award of stock options, restricted shares and other equity and equity-based awards to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amount shown under shares outstanding includes 200,358 deferred stock unit ("dsu") grants and dividend equivalents earned on each dsu account, 17,393,133 shares to be issued upon exercise of options, 3,736,710 restricted stock units and 1,417,523 performance share units representing target payout. there are currently no restricted share awards outstanding under this plan. amount shown under shares available reflects the aggregate shares available under tyco international ltd. long term incentive plan ("ltip"), ltip ii and the 2004 stock and incentive plan. shares available under ltip and ltip ii in march 2004 were rolled into the 2004 stock and incentive plan as of the inception of the plan. (2) the ltip allows for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amount shown includes 3,356,003 shares to be issued upon exercise of options, and 867,458 dsu grants and dividend equivalents earned on each dsu account. of the 3.3 million shares, 83,208 are outstanding stock options assumed in connection with acquisitions at a weighted-average exercise price of $127.03. no additional options may be granted under those assumed plans. effective as of inception of the 2004 stock and incentive plan, no additional grants may be made under the ltip or the ltip ii. (3) this table includes 2,919,845 shares available for future issuance under the tyco employee stock purchase plan ("espp"), which represents the number of remaining shares registered for issuance under this plan. all of the shares delivered to participants under the espp were purchased in the open market. the espp was suspended indefinitely during the fourth quarter of 2009. (4) under the terms of the 2004 stock and incentive plan adopted in march 2004, no additional options, equity or equity-based grants will be made to board members, officers and non-officer employees under the ltip or the ltip ii. ltip ii allowed for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to employees who are not officers of tyco. under this plan, non-officer employees or former employees of tyco or a subsidiary could receive: (i) options to purchase tyco 31 table of contents common shares; (ii) stock appreciation rights; (iii) awards payable in cash, common shares, other securities or other property, based on the achievement of performance goals; (iv) dividend equivalents, consisting of a right to receive payments equivalent to dividends declared on tyco common shares; and (v) other stock-based awards as determined by the compensation and human resources committee ("committee"). the exercise price of options and stock appreciation rights would generally be fair market value on the date of grant, but could be lower in certain circumstances. no individual could receive awards for more than 12,000,000 shares (or 3,000,000 shares on a post-reverse stock split basis) in any calendar year. terms and conditions of awards were determined by the committee. awards could be deferred, and could be payable in any form the committee determined, including cash, tyco common shares, other securities or other property. the committee may modify awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events, including a change of control. the shares granted under the ltip ii will be issued at vesting under the 2004 stock and incentive plan. (5) the tyco international ltd. united kingdom ("uk") savings related share option plan ("saye") is a uk inland revenue approved plan for uk employees pursuant to which employees were granted options to purchase shares at the end of three years of service at a 15% discount off of the market price at time of grant. employees made monthly contributions that were, at the election of the employee, used for the purchase price of shares or the contribution could have been returned to the employee. the total amount of shares that may have been purchased at the end of the three years of service was equal to the total of the monthly contributions, plus a tax-free bonus amount equal to a multiple of the aggregate amount of monthly contributions, divided by the option price. an option will generally be exercisable only during the period of six months following the three-year period. the plan was administered by the company's international benefits oversight committee, appointed by the committee. the international benefits oversight committee, among other things, determined when to grant options and set the option price. the saye plan was approved on november 3, 1999 for a ten year period and has expired according to its terms on november 3, 2009. the international benefits oversight committee has not approved any additional grants since the last annual grant on october 9, 2008 and it has not applied for approval of a replacement for the saye plan at this time. issuer purchases of equity securities period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under publicly announced plans or programs 6/27/09 7/24/09 7/25/09 8/28/09 8/29/09 9/25/09 $ 900,000,000 during the quarter, the company did not repurchase any common shares on the nyse as part of the $1.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in july 2008 ("2008 share repurchase program"). approximately $900 million remained outstanding under the 2008 share repurchase program as of september 25, 2009. 32 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of tyco. this data is derived from tyco's consolidated financial statements for the five years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007, september 29, 2006 and september 30, 2005, respectively. this selected financial data should be read in conjunction with tyco's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of this annual report titled item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 2009 (1) 2008 (2) 2007 (3) 2006 (4) 2005 (5) (in millions, except per share data) consolidated statements of operations data: net revenue $ 17,237 $ 20,199 $ 18,477 $ 17,066 $ 16,385 (loss) income from continuing operations (1,833 ) 1,095 (2,524 ) 817 573 net (loss) income (1,798 ) 1,553 (1,742 ) 3,590 3,094 basic earnings per share: (loss) income from continuing operations (3.87 ) 2.26 (5.10 ) 1.63 1.14 net (loss) income (3.80 ) 3.21 (3.52 ) 7.14 6.15 diluted earnings per share: (loss) income from continuing operations (3.87 ) 2.25 (5.10 ) 1.59 1.11 net (loss) income (3.80 ) 3.19 (3.52 ) 6.95 5.85 cash dividends per share (6) 0.84 0.65 1.60 1.60 1.25 consolidated balance sheet data (end of year) (7) : total assets $ 25,553 $ 28,804 $ 32,815 $ 63,011 $ 62,465 long-term debt 4,029 3,709 4,080 8,856 10,077 shareholders' equity 12,941 15,494 15,624 35,387 32,619 (1) loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 25, 2009 includes goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $2.7 billion, $251 million of restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net, and $33 million of incremental stock option charges for share-based payment transactions. loss from continuing operations also includes charges of $125 million related to unresolved legacy security litigation matters. net loss also includes $35 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (2) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 26, 2008 includes a class action settlement credit, net of $10 million, a $10 million of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, $4 million of separation costs, restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $247 million, $42 million of incremental stock option charges for share-based payment transactions and a $258 million loss on extinguishment of debt related to consent solicitations and exchange offers and termination of a bridge loan facility. net income also includes $458 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (3) loss from continuing operations for the year ended september 28, 2007 includes a class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion, $105 million of separation costs, a $59 million goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges related to the reorganization to a new management and segment reporting structure, restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $198 million, $120 million of incremental stock option charges for share-based payment transactions, a $259 million loss related to the early retirement of debt and $95 million of tax charges related to the separation primarily for the write-off of deferred tax assets that will no longer be realizable. net loss also includes $782 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations. (4) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 29, 2006 includes a charge of $100 million related to the voluntary replacement program, which is included in cost of sales. also included are $49 million of separation costs, restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $15 million, $84 million of incremental stock option charges for share-based payment transactions, $72 million of income related to a settlement with a former executive and $48 million of income resulting from a reduction in our estimated workers' compensation liabilities primarily due to favorable claims experience. net income includes $2,787 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $14 million loss, net of income taxes related to a cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with our accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations. 33 table of contents (5) income from continuing operations for the year ended september 30, 2005 includes restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $41 million, a $70 million charge related to certain former executives' employment, a $50 million charge related to an sec enforcement action, a loss of $405 million related to the retirement of debt as well as $109 million of income related to a court-ordered restitution award. net income also includes $2,500 million of income, net of income taxes, from discontinued operations as well as a $21 million gain, net of income taxes, related to a cumulative effect adjustment recorded in conjunction with the change in measurement date for pension and postretirement benefit plans. (6) see item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities for a further discussion of the company's dividend policy and 2009 quarterly dividends. cash dividends per share for the years ended 2007, 2006 and 2005 represent that of tyco pre-separation, which included covidien and tyco electronics. (7) the decrease in total assets, long-term debt and shareholders' equity in 2007 is primarily related to the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics. 34 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the selected financial data and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the headings "risk factors" and "forward-looking information." introduction the consolidated financial statements include the consolidated results of tyco international ltd., a company organized under the laws of switzerland, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as "we," the "company" or "tyco"). the financial statements have been prepared in united states dollars ("usd") and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). the company operates in the following business segments: adt worldwide designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security systems for residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. flow control designs, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes, fittings, valve automation and heat tracing products for the oil, gas and other energy markets along with general process industries and the water and wastewater markets. fire protection services designs, sells, installs and services fire detection and fire suppression systems for commercial, industrial and governmental customers. electrical and metal products designs, manufactures and sells galvanized steel tubing, armored wire and cable and other metal products for non-residential construction, electrical, fire and safety and mechanical customers. safety products designs, manufactures and sells fire suppression, electronic, security and life safety products, including fire suppression products, breathing apparatus, intrusion security, access control and video management systems. in addition, safety products manufactures products installed and serviced by adt worldwide and fire protection services. we also provide general corporate services to our segments and these costs are reported as corporate and other. references to the segment data are to the company's continuing operations. certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. the company has realigned certain business operations as of september 27, 2008, which resulted in certain prior period segment amounts being recast. see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. overview and outlook overall, fiscal year 2009 results were negatively affected by the economic downturn, which adversely impacted our businesses across nearly all geographies and industries. revenue decreased by $3.0 billion, or 14.7%, compared to 2008, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges were largely responsible for an operating loss of $1.5 billion for the year, compared to operating income of $1.9 billion in 2008. approximately one half of the 2009 revenue decline was due to the general strengthening of the u.s. dollar during 2009, as over half of our revenue is generated outside the u.s. the remaining revenue decline was due in large part to our electrical and metal products business, 35 table of contents which saw historically low volumes in 2009. the impact of the weakened global economy on product and systems installation revenue also significantly contributed to the year-over-year decline. on the other hand, service revenue continued to grow as a percentage of our overall revenue, from 35% in 2008 to 39% in 2009. our service revenues are principally derived from our adt worldwide and fire protection services businesses, and represent a predictable and consistent source of revenue. recurring revenue in our adt worldwide business now represents approximately 55% of adt's total revenue compared to approximately 50% in 2008. in the fire protection services business, service revenue increased as a percentage of fire protection's total revenue from 48% in 2008 to 49% in 2009. operating income declined in 2009 compared to 2008 due in large part to non-cash goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of approximately $2.7 billion during 2009. operating income was also negatively affected by charges related to restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture activity of approximately $251 million and charges related to legacy legal matters of approximately $125 million. to a lesser degree, operating income was negatively impacted by reduced volumes due to the economic downturn. operating income benefited from a number of key cost containment actions taken in 2009 and 2008, as well as restructuring actions taken in prior periods. we continue to be aggressive in identifying cost saving opportunities and restructuring activities that should benefit the company when the economy improves. during 2010, we expect to incur an additional $100 million to $150 million of charges related to restructuring activity. as of september 25, 2009, the company's cash balance was $2.4 billion, as compared to $1.5 billion as of september 26, 2008. the increase from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to cash flow from operating activities and proceeds received from the issuance of long-term debt. in 2010, we expect to continue to use our cash to fund internal growth opportunities, improve productivity across all of our businesses, make acquisitions that strategically fit within our adt worldwide, fire protection services and flow control businesses and return capital to shareholders. in 2010, we expect to continue our portfolio refinement efforts by exiting areas that have not provided, and are not expected to provide, an adequate return on investment. finally, in 2010, we will continue to focus on growing revenue in key emerging markets and, as noted above, taking advantage of restructuring opportunities that are expected to provide significant future cost savings. goodwill and intangible asset impairments annually in the fiscal fourth quarter, and more frequently if triggering events occur, the company tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets with its carrying amount. during the second quarter of 2009, the company concluded that its emea security and emea fire reporting units within the adt worldwide and fire protection services segments, respectively, electrical and metal products reporting unit within the electrical and metal products segment and access control and video systems ("acvs"), life safety and sensormatic retail solutions ("srs") reporting units within the safety products segment experienced triggering events such that the carrying values of these reporting units likely exceeded their fair values. as a result of the triggering events, the company performed long-lived asset, goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests for these reporting units and certain of the company's trade names and franchise rights. the results of the goodwill impairment tests indicated that the implied goodwill amount was less than the carrying amount of goodwill for each of the aforementioned reporting units. the company recorded an aggregate non-cash impairment charge of $2.6 billion ($2.6 billion after-tax) during the second quarter of 2009. the non-cash impairment charge was recorded in goodwill and intangible asset impairments in the company's consolidated statements of operations for the quarter ended march 27, 2009. also, during the second quarter of 2009, the company's estimates of future cash flows used in determining the fair value of its safety products segment sensormatic tradename as well as certain 36 table of contents adt worldwide segment franchise rights were revised downward relative to the estimates used in the company's tests during the fourth quarter of 2008. the results of the impairment test indicated that the safety products sensormatic tradename and adt worldwide franchise rights estimated fair values were less than their respective carrying amounts. as a result, the company recorded an aggregate non-cash impairment charge of $64 million ($40 million after-tax) during the second quarter of 2009. the non-cash impairment charge was recorded in goodwill and intangible asset impairments in the company's consolidated statements of operations for the quarter ended march 27, 2009. operating results net revenue, operating (loss) income and net (loss) income for the years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 revenue from product sales $ 10,482 $ 13,064 $ 11,816 service revenue 6,755 7,135 6,661 net revenue $ 17,237 $ 20,199 $ 18,477 operating (loss) income $ (1,487 ) $ 1,941 $ (1,732 ) interest income 44 110 104 interest expense (301 ) (396 ) (313 ) other expense, net (7 ) (224 ) (255 ) (loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest (1,751 ) 1,431 (2,196 ) income tax expense (78 ) (335 ) (324 ) minority interest (4 ) (1 ) (4 ) (loss) income from continuing operations (1,833 ) 1,095 (2,524 ) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 35 458 782 net (loss) income $ (1,798 ) $ 1,553 $ (1,742 ) net revenue decreased $3.0 billion, or 14.7%, for 2009 as compared to 2008, in large part due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which negatively affected 2009 by $1.5 billion. the remaining decrease in revenue was driven primarily by lower volume of steel products in our electrical and metal products segment and weakness in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market, which negatively impacted our adt worldwide and safety products segments. revenues were positively affected by $110 million for acquisitions and divestitures, primarily in our adt worldwide segment. 37 table of contents operating income decreased $3.4 billion to an operating loss of $1.5 billion for 2009. the operating loss included an aggregate goodwill impairment charge of $2.6 billion relating to reporting units in our electrical and metal products, adt worldwide, fire protection services and safety products segments and intangible asset impairment charges of $64 million relating to assets at our adt worldwide and safety products segments for 2009. additionally, lower volumes primarily in our electrical and metal products and safety products segments negatively impacted operating income. in addition, 2009 included legacy legal settlement charges of $125 million as well as restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $251 million. operating income for 2008 included separation related costs of $4 million, restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $247 million and a legacy settlement charge of $29 million, offset by a credit of $10 million for class action settlement recoveries. changes in foreign currency exchange rates negatively affected operating income by $61 million for 2009. results by geographic area net revenue by geographic area for the years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 was as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 net revenue (1) : united states $ 8,304 $ 9,465 $ 8,910 other americas 1,520 1,733 1,419 europe, middle east and africa 4,706 5,749 5,338 asia-pacific 2,707 3,252 2,810 $ 17,237 $ 20,199 $ 18,477 (1) revenue is attributed to individual countries based on the reporting entity that records the transaction. segment results the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each of our segments included in continuing operations. adt worldwide net revenue, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, operating income and operating margin for adt worldwide for the years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 revenue from product sales $ 2,226 $ 2,668 $ 2,542 service revenue 4,789 5,063 4,746 net revenue $ 7,015 $ 7,731 $ 7,288 goodwill and intangible asset impairments $ 635 $ 1 $ 52 operating income 233 906 817 operating margin (1) 11.7 % 11.2 % (1) certain operating margins have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. 38 table of contents net revenue by geographic area for adt worldwide for the years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 was as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 north america $ 4,170 $ 4,218 $ 4,094 europe, middle east and africa 1,834 2,355 2,214 rest of world 1,011 1,158 980 $ 7,015 $ 7,731 $ 7,288 net revenue for adt worldwide decreased $716 million, or 9.3%, during 2009 as compared to 2008. this decrease was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $590 million. revenue was positively affected by $152 million for the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures. revenue from product sales decreased 16.6% and service revenue decreased 5.4%. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of electronic security and other systems. service revenue is comprised of electronic security services and maintenance, including the monitoring of burglar alarms, fire alarms and other life safety systems as well as services related to retailer anti-theft systems. approximately 55% of adt's total net revenue is contractual and is considered recurring revenue. recurring revenue declined 3.6% during 2009 primarily as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates which unfavorably impacted recurring revenue by 7.5% offset by growth in north america and asia. systems installation and service revenue declined 15.3% partially due to a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which unfavorably impacted system installation and service revenue by 8.3%, and lower sales volume due to continued weakness in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market. geographically, revenue in north america decreased $48 million, or 1.1%, resulting from reduced spending primarily in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market. revenue in emea decreased $521 million, or 22.1%, largely as a result of foreign currency exchange rates, which had an unfavorable impact of $323 million. the remaining decrease in emea was primarily a result of a decline in systems installation and service revenue due to a slowdown in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market. revenue declined $147 million, or 12.7%, in the rest of world geographies, which was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $219 million partially offset by growth in asia and latin america. attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business increased over the prior year to 13.4% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2009, as compared to 12.9% for 2008 and 12.3% in 2007. the increased attrition was primarily due to adverse market conditions in the united kingdom, continental europe, south africa, asia and australia. operating income in 2009 decreased $673 million as compared to 2008. based on the deterioration in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market discussed above, the company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $613 million related to its adt emea reporting unit and intangible asset impairment charges of $22 million related to certain franchise rights within north america during the second quarter of 2009. the decrease is also related to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $44 million. the decrease was further driven by the decline in sales volume as well as an increase in bad debt charges, both as a result of the weakness experienced in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market, and the current adverse global economic conditions. additionally, advertising costs increased which adversely affected operating income. operating income was negatively impacted by restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $87 million in 2009. operating income in 2008 included restructuring charges of $94 million and expenses of $51 million primarily to convert customers from analog to digital signal transmission in north america. there were no charges related to converting customers to digital signal during 2009. the decline in operating income was partially offset by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions. 39 table of contents net revenue for adt worldwide increased $443 million, or 6.1%, during 2008, with product revenue up 5.0% and service revenue up 6.7%, as compared to 2007. approximately 50% of adt's total net revenue is contractual and is considered recurring revenue. overall, recurring revenue grew 7.2% during 2008 while systems installation and service revenue grew 4.9%. geographically, north america grew 3%, resulting largely from growth in recurring revenue which was partially offset by weakness in the retailer end market. the north america net revenue increase also includes the impact of acquisitions, which contributed $53 million. the year-over-year net revenue increase in north america was partially offset by weakness in the retailer end market during the fourth quarter of 2008. revenue in the emea region increased $141 million, or 6.4%, as a result of foreign currency exchange rates which had a favorable impact of $142 million. this increase was partially offset by a decline in systems installation and service revenue due to weakness in the retailer end market as well as commercial softness primarily in the united kingdom. the 18.2% revenue growth in the rest of world geographies was primarily driven by growth in both recurring revenue and contracting across all regions. the rest of the world increase included the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $30 million. overall, the adt worldwide net revenue increase included the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $204 million. the net impact of acquisitions, divestitures, and other activity positively affected revenue by $27 million. operating margin in adt worldwide increased to 11.7% in 2008 from 11.2% in 2007. north america is one of the most profitable geographic areas for adt worldwide with 2008 and 2007 operating margin of 15.8% and 16.9%, respectively. margins in north america were negatively impacted by $57 million of restructuring and asset impairments in 2008 compared to $6 million in 2007. restructuring charges in 2008 include $58 million relating to the reacquisition of certain franchise rights that were deemed to be unfavorable to the company. there were no charges related to the reacquisition of franchise rights in 2007. in addition, north america incurred $48 million and $12 million to convert customers from analog to digital signal transmissions in 2008 and 2007, respectively. north america operating margins benefited from growth in recurring revenue partially offset by declines in the retailer end market. adt emea had 2008 and 2007 operating margin of 5.0% and 2.5%, respectively. emea's operating income included $34 million of restructuring and impairments in 2008 compared with $67 million in 2007. emea margins benefited from reduced costs as a result of the restructuring program, which was partially offset by volume decreases as discussed above. operating income in 2008 increased $89 million, or 10.9%, as compared to 2007. factors that positively impacted operating income included increased volume, particularly our higher margin recurring revenue, operational efficiencies, including those achieved from restructuring activities in europe, lower depreciation and amortization expense and lower long-lived asset impairment charges. the decrease in depreciation and amortization expense occurred primarily in north america and resulted from changes to the depreciation method and estimated useful lives for pooled subscriber assets and changes to the estimated useful lives of dealer intangible assets. the reduction in depreciation and amortization expense was partially offset by increased net expenses of $51 million, which primarily related to converting customers from analog to digital signal transmissions in north america. results for 2007 include goodwill impairment charges due to the reorganization of our management and segment reporting structure following the separation. 40 table of contents flow control net revenue, operating income and operating margin for flow control for the years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 revenue from product sales $ 3,580 $ 4,201 $ 3,618 service revenue 270 217 148 net revenue $ 3,850 $ 4,418 $ 3,766 operating income $ 518 $ 618 $ 457 operating margin 13.5 % 14.0 % 12.1 % net revenue for flow control decreased $568 million, or 12.9%, in 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease in net revenue was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $462 million. revenue also decreased due to reduced volume in the water business and reduced project activity in the energy end market of the thermal controls business. the decrease in revenue was partially offset by an increase in the valves business primarily from the energy end market in emea. the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures unfavorably impacted net revenue by $3 million in 2009 and favorably impacted net revenue by $16 million in 2008. operating income decreased $100 million, or 16.2%, in 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease in operating income was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $73 million as well as decreased volume in the water businesses discussed above offset by margin improvements in the valves business. margins were also negatively impacted by restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $29 million. additionally, management estimates that $5 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009. restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges were $8 million in 2008. additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008 included an environmental remediation charge of $6 million related to the closure of a facility in north america. the decline in operating income was partially offset by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions. net revenue for flow control increased $652 million, or 17.3%, in 2008 as compared to 2007. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by volume growth from continued strength in the valves and thermal businesses, and to a lesser extent, the water business. the increase in the valves business was primarily driven by project growth in the oil and gas industry while the thermal business benefited primarily from strong project growth coupled with increased selling prices. while revenue within the water business increased year-over-year, project activity declined during the second half of 2008, primarily in australia. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates positively impacted revenue by $314 million. the net impact of acquisitions, divestitures and other activity positively affected revenue by $6 million. operating income increased $161 million, or 35.2%, in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily from revenue growth, as well as volume efficiencies. flow control incurred restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net of $8 million, compared to $28 million in 2007. additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008 included an environmental remediation charge of $6 million related to the closure of a facility in north america as compared to no charges in 2007. 41 table of contents fire protection services net revenue, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, operating income and operating margin for fire protection services for the years ended september 25, 2009 september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 revenue from product sales $ 1,751 $ 2,013 $ 1,982 service revenue 1,677 1,826 1,744 net revenue $ 3,428 $ 3,839 $ 3,726 goodwill and intangible asset impairments $ 180 $ 9 $ operating income 68 325 283 operating margin (1) 8.5 % 7.6 % (1) certain operating margins have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. net revenue for fire protection services decreased $411 million, or 10.7%, during 2009 as compared to 2008. this decrease was primarily due to the impact of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $294 million. additionally, revenue declined due to the continued weakness in the commercial market and current adverse global economic conditions. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of fire protection and other systems. service revenue consists of inspection, maintenance, service and monitoring of fire detection and suppression systems. geographically, revenue in our international fire businesses decreased by $294 million largely due to the impact of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates discussed above as well as the continued weakness in the european commercial markets. additionally, revenue in our north america simplexgrinnell business decreased by $116 million primarily due to a decline in systems installation and upgrade activity in the sprinkler business. operating income decreased $257 million during 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease was primarily due to a $180 million goodwill impairment in emea recorded during 2009 compared to a $9 million goodwill impairment in latin america recorded during 2008. the decrease was further driven by the decline in sales volume discussed above as well as an increase in bad debt charges, both as a result of the weakness experienced in the commercial markets and the current adverse global economic conditions. there were restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $45 million in 2009 as compared to $25 million in 2008. additionally, operating income decreased due to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $9 million. the decline in operating income was partially offset by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions. net revenue for fire protection services increased $113 million, or 3.0%, during 2008 as compared to 2007, driven by increases in both product sales and service revenues. this increase in product sales was aided by foreign currency exchange rates, which had a favorable impact of $74 million. the increase in service revenue related to growth in service work and sprinkler contracting in north america and asia primarily as a result of an increase in demand from the education and healthcare industries in north america and commercial expansion in the asia region. additionally, changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of $60 million on service revenue. the increase was partially offset by reduced revenue in emea and australia/new zealand primarily due to a decline in contracting revenue as a result of a strategic initiative to be more selective in our pursuit of contracts. additionally, the net revenue increase was partially offset due to the planned exit of low performing non-core activities in latin america and asia. overall, the fire protection services net revenue increase included the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $134 million. 42 table of contents operating income increased $42 million, or 14.8%, during 2008 as compared to 2007 resulting largely from increased volume and improved margins, primarily in north america, and to a lesser extent, asia and emea. the increase in operating income during 2008 was partially offset by $25 million of restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges. also, operating income was unfavorably impacted by $9 million due to a goodwill impairment in the latin america reporting unit. electrical and metal products net revenue, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, operating income and operating margin for electrical and metal products for the years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 revenue from product sales $ 1,389 $ 2,266 $ 1,970 service revenue 3 6 4 net revenue $ 1,392 $ 2,272 $ 1,974 goodwill and intangible asset impairments $ 935 $ $ operating (loss) income (940 ) 342 159 operating margin (1) 15.1 % 8.1 % (1) certain operating margins have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. net revenue for electrical and metal products decreased $880 million, or 38.7%, in 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower volume and selling prices of steel products largely resulting from a decline in the commercial market in north america. lower volume and selling prices for armored cable products also contributed to the decline. changes in foreign currency exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of $52 million. the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures negatively affected revenue by approximately $31 million. operating income decreased $1.3 billion in 2009 as compared to 2008. based on the sales volume decrease as well as the significant decline in the price of steel, the company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $935 million during the second quarter of 2009. there was no goodwill impairment recorded during 2008. the decrease in operating income also related to volume declines as well as lower spreads for steel products. spreads for steel products continued to decline as a direct result of higher raw material costs and lower selling prices. lower restructuring and divestiture charges incurred in 2009 as compared to similar charges incurred in 2008 partially offset the decline in operating income discussed above. results for 2009 included restructuring and divestiture charges of $21 million as compared to $43 million for 2008. additionally, management estimates that $1 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009. net revenue for electrical and metal products increased $298 million, or 15.1%, in 2008 as compared to 2007. the increase in net revenue was largely driven by selling price increases for steel tubular products and to a lesser extent armored cable products partially offset by decreased sales volume for both products. changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable impact of $44 million. operating income increased $183 million, or 115.1%, in 2008 as compared to 2007. the increase in operating income was primarily due to favorable spreads on both steel tubular and armored cable products. income generated by higher selling prices for both steel tubular and armored cable products were partially offset by decreased sales volume for both products. operational excellence initiatives resulted in reductions in production cost rates for both steel tubular and armored cable products. the increase in operating income during 2008 was partially offset by $43 million of restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, as compared to $7 million in 2007. 43 table of contents safety products net revenue, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, operating income and operating margin for safety products for the years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 revenue from product sales $ 1,536 $ 1,916 $ 1,704 service revenue 16 18 15 net revenue $ 1,552 $ 1,934 $ 1,719 goodwill and intangible asset impairments $ 955 $ $ 7 operating (loss) income (789 ) 284 274 operating margin (1) 14.7 % 15.9 % (1) certain operating margins have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. net revenue for safety products decreased $382 million, or 19.8%, during 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease is primarily related to reduced volume in our fire suppression business, life safety and electronic security businesses, which continued to be impacted by the soft economic conditions. the remaining decrease is related to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $122 million. the decrease in our fire suppression business was primarily due to reduced spending in the commercial construction market. the decrease in the life safety business was primarily due to reduced municipal spending. the electronic security business decrease was primarily due to the slow down in the retail sector, as retail capital projects and new store openings were canceled or delayed. operating income decreased $1.1 billion in 2009 as compared to 2008. the decline is primarily attributable to goodwill and intangible impairment charges of $955 million recorded during the quarter ended march 27, 2009 as a result of the continued slowdown in the commercial and retail markets. as discussed above, decreased sales volume within the fire suppression, life safety and electronic security businesses also negatively impacted operating income. operating income was negatively impacted by restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $46 million during 2009. additionally, management estimates that $9 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009. the same period in the prior year included $73 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges. operating income also decreased by $18 million due to unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. operating income was also negatively impacted by a charge of $8 million relating to the amount of depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recorded had a business that was previously classified as held for sale been continuously classified as held and used (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). net revenue for safety products increased $215 million, or 12.5%, during 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily from strong performance in the fire suppression, and to a lesser extent electronic security and life safety businesses. the increase in the fire suppression business was driven by continued growth in the energy and marine sectors, favorable product mix and increased selling prices to offset increasing raw material costs. the increase in the life safety business was primarily driven by growth in north america as a result of increased spending by fire departments and from increased selling prices. the increase in the electronic security business was partially due to higher volume and new product introductions primarily related to casinos and schools. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $76 million also contributed to the increase in revenue. operating income increased $10 million, or 3.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. the increase in operating income was primarily attributable to increased sales volume along with the impact of cost 44 table of contents savings from operational excellence initiatives. the increase in operating income during 2008 was partially offset by $73 million of restructuring, asset impairment, and divestiture charges, net as compared to $29 million in 2007. corporate and other corporate expense for 2009 was $43 million higher as compared to the prior year, primarily resulting from a charge of $125 million related to the settlement of legacy securities matters, which was partially offset by $16 million benefit related to a settlement reached with a former executive. additionally, corporate expense in 2009 included $16 million of restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges. corporate expense for 2008 included net charges of $28 million composed of a $29 million charge for a legacy legal settlement, $4 million of separation costs and $5 million for restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net, offset by a credit of $10 million for class action settlement recoveries. the remaining decrease in corporate expense is primarily related to cost reduction initiatives and the restructuring program. corporate expense for 2008 was $3.2 billion lower as compared to the prior year, primarily resulting from various charges in 2007, including the class action settlement charge of $2.862 billion, separation costs of $117 million and net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $40 million primarily related to the consolidation of certain headquarter functions. corporate expense for 2008 included net charges of $28 million composed of a $29 million charge for a legacy legal settlement, $4 million of separation costs and $5 million for restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net, offset by a credit of $10 million for class action settlement recoveries. the remaining decrease in corporate expense is primarily related to cost reduction initiatives and the restructuring program. legal settlements in the first half of fiscal 2009, the company settled a number of legal matters stemming from alleged violations of federal securities laws committed by former senior management, including several lawsuits from plaintiffs that had opted out of the june 2007 class action settlement, for an aggregate amount of approximately $90 million. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the company's share of this amount was approximately $24 million, with covidien and tyco electronics responsible for approximately $38 million and $28 million, respectively. during the second quarter of 2009, the company concluded that its best estimate of probable loss for its unresolved legacy securities matters was $375 million. due to the fact that any payments ultimately made in connection with these matters would be subject to the sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, the company also recorded receivables from covidien and tyco electronics in the amounts of $158 million and $116 million, respectively. as a result, the company recorded a net charge of $101 million during the quarter ended march 27, 2009 in selling, general, and administrative expenses related to these unresolved matters. in the second half of fiscal 2009, the company agreed to settle with all of the remaining plaintiffs that had opted-out of the class action settlement as well as plaintiffs who had brought erisa related claims for a total of $271 million. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, the company's share of the settlement amount was approximately $73 million, with covidien and tyco electronics responsible for approximately $114 million and $84 million, respectively. this settlement activity did not result in the company recording a charge to its consolidated statements of operations as the company had established a reserve for its best estimate of the amount of loss during the second quarter of 2009 as discussed above. the company continues to believe that the accrual remaining as of september 25, 2009 is its best estimate for the remaining unresolved claims. although the company has reserved its best estimate of probable loss, related to unresolved legacy securities claims, their 45 table of contents ultimate resolution could differ from the estimate and could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. interest income and expense interest income was $44 million in 2009, as compared to $110 million and $104 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. the decrease in interest income in 2009, and the increase in interest income in 2008, is primarily related to $47 million of interest earned on funds held in escrow prior to settlement of the class action during 2008 and lower investment yields during 2009. interest expense was $301 million in 2009, as compared to $396 million in 2008 and $313 million in 2007. the decrease in interest expense in 2009 primarily relates to interest on the class action settlement liability of $47 million and cost related to our bridge loan of $48 million in 2008. the increase in interest expense in 2008 was a result of $47 million of interest on funds held in escrow related to the class action settlement liability, and increased costs related to our bridge loan and revolving credit facilities. the weighted-average interest rate on total debt outstanding as of september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 was 6.6%, 6.2% and 6.3%, respectively. in 2007, net interest amounts were proportionally allocated to covidien and tyco electronics based on the debt amounts that we believe were utilized by covidien and tyco electronics historically inclusive of amounts directly incurred, and is included in discontinued operations. allocated net interest was calculated using our historical weighted-average interest rate on debt, including the impact of interest rate swap agreements. the portion of tyco's interest income allocated to covidien and tyco electronics was $35 million during 2007. the portion of tyco's interest expense allocated to covidien and tyco electronics was $242 million during 2007. other expense, net other expense, net was $7 million in 2009 compared to $224 million in 2008 and $255 million in 2007. other expense, net in 2009 primarily relates to a $14 million charge recorded as a result of a decrease in the receivables due from covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement, which was partially offset by income of $5 million relating to a gain on derivative contracts used to economically hedge the foreign currency risk related to the swiss franc denominated dividends. other expense, net during 2008, includes $258 million on extinguishment of debt related to the consent solicitation and exchange offers and termination of the bridge loan facility offset by income of $6 million recorded in connection with the settlement of its 3.125% convertible senior debentures and related financial instruments. see notes 12 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements. we also recorded other-than-temporary impairments and realized losses on the sale of investments of $6 million related primarily to investments in corporate debt. see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, we recorded $40 million of income as a result of an increase in the receivables due from covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement in connection with the adoption of the guidance pertaining to the accounting for uncertain income taxes. we also recorded $6 million of expense for other activity in accordance with the tax sharing agreement during 2008. during 2007, other expense, net consisted primarily of a $259 million loss on early extinguishment of debt incurred in connection with debt tender offers undertaken in connection with the separation, for which no tax benefit is available. this charge consists primarily of premiums paid and the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts. the total loss on early extinguishment of debt was 46 table of contents $647 million, with $259 million included in continuing operations and $388 million allocated to covidien and tyco electronics and included in discontinued operations. income taxes effective income tax rate the effective income tax rate for 2009 is not meaningful primarily as a result of the loss driven by the goodwill impairment charges of $2.6 billion, for which almost no tax benefit is available. our effective income tax rate was 23.4% for 2008. income taxes during 2008 were positively impacted by increased profitability in lower tax rate jurisdictions and release of deferred tax valuation allowances partially offset by enacted tax law changes that negatively impacted the non-u.s. deferred tax assets. the effective tax rate for 2007 is not meaningful primarily as a result of the class action settlement charge, net of $2.862 billion and the loss on early extinguishment of debt of $259 million for which no tax benefit is available. additionally, taxes for 2007 were negatively impacted by tax costs related to the separation and were favorably impacted by the release of a deferred tax valuation allowance related to non-u.s. tax rulings received during the period and reduced reserve requirements on certain legacy tax matters. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $791 million and $742 million as of september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. the valuation allowance was calculated and recorded when we determined that it was more-likely-than-not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets would not be realized. we believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. other income tax matters in connection with the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics from tyco, tyco entered into a tax sharing agreement that governs the rights and obligations of each party with respect to certain pre-separation income tax liabilities. more specifically, tyco, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of shared income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are shared equally among the parties. consistent with the sharing provisions of the tax sharing agreement, tyco had a net receivable from covidien and tyco electronics of $98 million and $126 million as of september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008, respectively. in addition, as of both september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008, tyco had a recorded liability of $554 million representing the fair value of tyco's obligations under the tax sharing agreement. tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and 47 table of contents proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest have been assessed as uncertain income tax positions and recorded as appropriate. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's income taxes, see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. divestitures we have continued to assess the strategic fit of our various businesses and we will pursue divestiture of businesses that do not align with our long-term strategy. held for sale and reflected as continuing operations during the fourth quarter of 2009, we approved a plan to sell a business in our adt worldwide segment. this business has been classified as held for sale; however, its results of operations are presented in continuing operations as the criteria for discontinued operations have not been met. we have assessed and determined that the carrying value of this business is recoverable and will continue to assess recoverability based on current fair value, less cost to sell, until the business is sold. fair value used for the impairment assessment was based on existing market conditions. we expect to complete the sale during fiscal 2010. during the third quarter of 2008, we approved a plan to sell a business in the safety products segment. this business had been classified as held for sale in our historical consolidated balance sheets. during the second quarter of 2009, due to a change in strategy by management, we decided not to sell the business. as a result, the business no longer satisfied the requirements to be classified as held for sale in our consolidated balance sheet as of march 27, 2009. accordingly, the consolidated balance sheet as of september 26, 2008 was recast to reclassify the business from held for sale to held and used. we measured the business at the lower of its (i) carrying amount before it was classified as held for sale, adjusted for depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recognized had the business been continuously classified as held and used, or (ii) fair value at the date the decision not to sell was made. we recorded a charge of $8 million in the second quarter of 2009 relating to the amount of depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recorded had the asset been continuously classified as held and used. discontinued operations as previously reported in our periodic filings, in july 2008, we substantially completed the sale of our infrastructure services business, which met the criteria to be presented as discontinued operations. in order to complete the sale of earth tech brasil ltda. ("et brasil") and earth tech uk businesses and certain assets in china, we were required to obtain consents and approvals to transfer the legal ownership of the business and assets. on january 22, 2009, we received the necessary consents and approvals to transfer the legal ownership of our et brasil business to carioca christiani-nielsen engenharia s.a. and received cash proceeds of $13 million. during the fourth quarter of 2008, we sold our earth tech uk business and received net cash proceeds of $53 million. however, the gain was deferred until receipt of the necessary consents and approvals. on may 12, 2009, we received the necessary consents and approvals to transfer the legal ownership of our earth tech uk business to aecom technologies corporation ("aecom") and realized the deferred gain in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2009. furthermore, on february 27, 2009, we received the necessary consents to transfer certain of the china assets and received cash proceeds of $18 million. on may 8, 2009, we received the necessary consents to transfer additional china assets and received cash proceeds of $6 million. on july 2, 2009 we received the necessary consents and approvals 48 table of contents to transfer the remaining assets in china and received cash proceeds of $24 million. as a result of the fiscal 2009 dispositions, a net pre-tax gain of $33 million was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended september 25, 2009. during 2008, we sold our empresa de transmissao de energia do oeste ltda. ("eteo") business, ancon building products ("ancon") business, nippon dry-chemical co., ltd. ("ndc") business, and a european manufacturer of public address products and acoustic systems. as discussed above, we substantially completed the sale of our infrastructure services business, during the fourth quarter of 2008. these businesses met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and have been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented. in may 2008, we sold 100% of the stock of eteo, a brazilian subsidiary of our infrastructure services business for $338 million of net cash proceeds and recorded a pre-tax gain of $232 million, including the effects of the economic hedge of the purchase price discussed below. the gain was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended september 26, 2008. eteo was part of our corporate and other segment. during september 2007, we entered into an economic hedge of the brazilian real denominated contractual sale price of the eteo business. since the hedging transaction was directly linked to the proceeds from the sale of a business that was reflected in discontinued operations, we began including the impact of the hedge in discontinued operations during the first quarter of 2008. during the third quarter of 2008, we incurred a pre-tax loss of $36 million on this hedge. the impact of the hedge in 2007 was not material. additionally in fiscal year 2008, we settled a contract dispute arising under our former infrastructure services business. in connection with the settlement, we assessed our assets under the original contract and concluded the assets were no longer recoverable, resulting in a $51 million charge to discontinued operations. during april 2008, we sold ancon, a manufacturer of stainless steel products used in masonry construction. ancon was part of our corporate and other segment. the sale was completed for $164 million in net cash proceeds and a pre-tax gain of $100 million was recorded which was largely exempt from tax. the gain was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended september 26, 2008. during the fourth quarter of 2008, we received an additional $6 million of proceeds related to the sale of ancon. during february 2008, we sold ndc, a company in the japanese fire protection industry. ndc was part of our fire protection services and safety products segments. the sale was completed for $50 million in net cash proceeds and a pre-tax gain of $7 million was recorded. the gain was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended september 26, 2008. during january 2008, we sold a european manufacturer of public address products and acoustic systems, which was part of our fire protection services segment and recorded an $8 million pre-tax loss on sale. the loss was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations. during the first quarter of 2007, aquas industriales de jose, c.a. ("aij"), a joint venture that was majority owned by infrastructure services, was sold for $42 million in net cash proceeds and a pre-tax gain of $19 million was recorded. the gain was recorded in discontinued operations, net of income taxes in our consolidated statements of operations. aij was part of our corporate and other segment. 49 table of contents during the third quarter of 2007, we completed the separation and have presented our healthcare and electronics businesses as discontinued operations in all periods presented. in each period prior to the separation, net interest and loss on early extinguishment of debt, which is included in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations, amounts were proportionally allocated to covidien and tyco electronics based on the debt amounts that we believe were utilized by covidien and tyco electronics historically inclusive of amounts directly incurred. allocated net interest was calculated using our historical weighted-average interest rate on debt including the impact of interest rate swap agreements. these allocated amounts were included in discontinued operations. during 2007, allocated interest income, interest expense and other expense, net was $35 million, $242 million and $388 million, respectively. during 2007, we incurred pre-tax separation costs related primarily to professional services and employee-related costs of $154 million and $289 million, respectively, in discontinued operations. additionally, the year ended september 28, 2007 includes tax charges related to the separation primarily for the write-off of deferred tax assets that are no longer realizable of $88 million in discontinued operations. we have used available information to develop our best estimates for certain assets and liabilities related to the separation. in limited instances, final determination of the balances will be made in subsequent periods. during the year ended september 28, 2007, $72 million was recorded through shareholders' equity, primarily related to a cash true-up adjustment of $57 million and $15 million of other items. during the year ended september 26, 2008, $70 million of other items were recorded through shareholders' equity. during the year ended september 25, 2009, $43 million was recorded through shareholders' equity, $9 million of which related to a pre-separation income tax filing in a non-u.s. jurisdiction and $34 million of other items. the other items discussed above, which aggregate $119 million, reflect immaterial adjustments to shareholders' equity which were recorded to correct the distribution amount at the date of separation. adjustments in the future for the impact of filing final income tax returns in certain jurisdictions where those returns include a combination of our, covidien and/or tyco electronics legal entities and for certain amended income tax returns for the periods prior to the separation may be recorded to either shareholders' equity or the consolidated statements of operations depending on the specific item giving rise to the adjustment. acquisitions during the year ended september 25, 2009, cash paid for acquisitions totaled $50 million, which primarily related to the acquisition of vue technology, inc., a provider of radio frequency identification ("rfid") technology, by our safety products segment. during the year ended september 26, 2008, cash paid for acquisitions totaled $401 million, which primarily related to the acquisition of winner security services llc ("winner"), sensormatic security corp. ("ssc") and first service security ("firstservice"). during 2007, cash paid for acquisitions totaled $31 million, primarily within our adt worldwide, safety products and flow control segments. these acquisitions were funded utilizing cash from operations. the results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in tyco's consolidated results from the respective acquisition dates. these acquisitions did not have a material effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for a detailed discussion of acquisitions, see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 50 table of contents critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. the following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. depreciation and amortization methods for security monitoring-related assets tyco generally considers assets related to the acquisition of new customers in its electronic security business in three asset categories: internally generated residential subscriber systems, internally generated commercial subscriber systems (collectively referred to as subscriber system assets) and customer accounts acquired through the adt dealer program (referred to as dealer intangibles). subscriber system assets include installed property, plant and equipment for which tyco retains ownership and deferred costs directly related to the customer acquisition and system installation. subscriber system assets and any deferred revenue resulting from the customer acquisition are accounted for over the expected life of the subscriber. in certain geographical areas where the company has a large number of customers that behave in a similar manner over time, the company accounts for subscriber system assets and related deferred revenue using pools, with separate pools for the components of subscriber system assets and any related deferred revenue based on the month and year of acquisition. effective as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, tyco changed the depreciation method and estimated useful life used to account for pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in north america) and related deferred revenue from the straight-line method with lives ranging from 10 to 14 years to an accelerated method with lives up to 15 years. the accelerated method utilizes declining balance rates based on geographical area ranging from 160% to 195% for residential subscriber pools and 145% to 265% for commercial subscriber pools and converts to a straight-line methodology when the resulting depreciation charge is greater than that from the accelerated method. the company will continue to use a straight-line method with a 14-year life for non-pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in europe and asia) and related deferred revenue, with remaining balances written off upon customer termination. the change in the method and estimated useful life used to account for pooled subscriber system assets and related deferred revenue resulted from our ongoing analysis of all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data specific to customer categories and geographical areas, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems. the pertinent factors have been influenced by management's ongoing customer retention programs, as well as tactical and strategic initiatives to improve service delivery, customer satisfaction, and the credit worthiness of the subscriber customer base. all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data specific to customer categories and geographical areas, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems, will continue to be reviewed by the company at each balance sheet date to assess the continued appropriateness of methods and estimated useful lives. effective as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, tyco also changed the estimated useful life of dealer intangibles in geographical areas comprising approximately 90% of the net carrying value of dealer intangibles from 12 to 15 years. the company continues to amortize dealer intangible assets on an accelerated basis. the change in the estimated useful life used to account for dealer intangibles resulted from our ongoing analysis of all pertinent factors, including actual customer attrition data, demand, competition, and the estimated technological life of the installed systems. the pertinent factors have been influenced by management's ongoing customer retention programs, as well as tactical and strategic initiatives to improve service delivery, customer satisfaction, and the credit worthiness of the subscriber customer base. attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business were 13.4%, 12.9% and 12.3% on a trailing 12-month basis for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 51 table of contents revenue recognition contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, large security intruder systems and other construction-related projects are recorded primarily under the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon estimated contract revenue and related total cost of the project at completion. the risk of this methodology is its dependence upon estimates of costs at completion, which are subject to the uncertainties inherent in long-term contracts. revisions to cost estimates as contracts progress have the effect of increasing or decreasing profits each period. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they become determinable. if estimates are inaccurate, there is risk that our revenue and profits for the period may be overstated or understated. product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants. rebates are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. loss contingencies accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. the accruals are based on judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarially determined estimates. additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. income taxes in determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. these estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. in estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future pre-tax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. we currently have recorded significant valuation allowances that we intend to maintain until it is more-likely-than-not the deferred tax assets will be realized. our income tax expense recorded in the future may be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. the realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance could result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. management is not currently aware of any such changes that would have a material effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately 52 table of contents proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually and more frequently if triggering events occur. in performing these assessments, management relies on various factors, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable transactions and other market data. there are inherent uncertainties related to these factors which require judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. since judgment is involved in performing fair value measurements used in goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analyses, there is risk that the carrying values of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be overstated. we elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for all goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, the company compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. fair value for the goodwill impairment test is determined utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the company's future budgets discounted using the market participants' weighted-average cost of capital and market indicators of terminal year cash flows. other valuation methods are used to corroborate the discounted cash flow method. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered potentially impaired and further tests are performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. in the second step of the goodwill impairment test, the company compares the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess of the carrying amount of goodwill over its implied fair value. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. the company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. long-lived assets assets held and used by the company, including property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable. tyco performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if impairment exists. for purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, tyco groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identified. if an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. impairments to long-lived assets to be disposed of are recorded based upon the fair value less cost to sell of the applicable assets. the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets is based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. since judgment is involved in determining the fair value and useful lives of long-lived assets, there is a risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may be overstated or understated. pension and postretirement benefits our pension expense and obligations are developed from actuarial valuations. two critical assumptions in determining pension expense and obligations are the discount rate and expected long-term return on plan assets. we evaluate these assumptions at least annually. other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover and are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. actual results may differ from actuarial assumptions. the discount rate represents the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments and is used to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows for benefit obligations under our pension plans. a decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of 53 table of contents pension benefit obligations. a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase our present value of pension obligations by approximately $77 million. we consider the current and expected asset allocations of our pension plans, as well as historical and expected long-term rates of return on those types of plan assets, in determining the expected long-term return on plan assets. a 50 basis point decrease in the expected long-term return on plan assets would increase our pension expense by approximately $7 million. for fiscal 2010, we expect that recent declines in interest rates will increase our pension expense, but is not expected to materially increase required contributions. liquidity and capital resources on september 30, 2009, tyco international finance s.a. ("tifsa") issued $500 million aggregate principle amount of 4.125% notes due 2014 (the "2014 notes"), which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company. tifsa received net proceeds of approximately $496 million after underwriting discounts and estimated offering expenses. on january 9, 2009, tifsa issued $750 million aggregate principle amount of 8.5% notes due on january 15, 2019, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company (the "2019 notes"). additionally, the holders of the 2019 notes have the right to require the company to repurchase all or a portion of the 2019 notes on july 15, 2014 at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes tendered, plus accrued and unpaid interest. otherwise, the 2019 notes mature on january 15, 2019. tifsa received net proceeds of approximately $745 million after underwriting discounts and offering expenses. the net proceeds of the aforementioned offerings may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in the company's subsidiaries. in january 2009, tifsa made a payment of $215 million to extinguish all of its 6.125% notes due 2009. additionally, in november 2008, tifsa made a payment of $300 million to extinguish all of its 6.125% notes due 2008. additionally, in january 2009, we repaid the entire outstanding balance of $686 million on our revolving credit facilities. as of september 25, 2009, there were no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facilities. as of september 25, 2009, the aggregate available commitment under our senior revolving credit facilities was $1.69 billion, $200 million of which was dedicated to backstop all of our commercial paper outstanding as of such date. we continually monitor developments regarding the availability of funds under our revolving credit facilities. although there is some risk that financial institutions will fail to perform their contractual obligations, particularly in times of credit market distress, we believe that the lenders under our revolving credit facilities are capable of meeting any borrowing requests we may make for the foreseeable future. as discussed above, as of september 25, 2009, we had $200 million of commercial paper outstanding. we continue to experience increased availability within the commercial paper markets. our multi-year revolving credit facilities serve as a backstop to our commercial paper program. in addition to our available cash and operating cash flows, additional sources of potential liquidity include committed credit lines, our commercial paper program, public debt and equity markets as well as the ability to sell trade accounts receivable. we continue to balance our operating, investing and financing uses of cash through investment in our existing core businesses, strategic acquisitions and divestitures, dividends and share repurchases. we believe our cash position, amounts available under our credit facilities and cash provided by operating activities will be adequate to cover our operational and business needs. as a result of recent declines in interest rates during 2009, pension costs may increase in fiscal 2010. we will continue to monitor market conditions and assess the impact, if any, on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. approximately 100% of our u.s. and more than 95% of our non-u.s. funded pension plans are invested in marketable investments, including publicly-traded 54 table of contents equity and fixed income securities. although we do not believe we will be required to make materially higher cash contributions in the next 12 months, if market conditions worsen, we may be required to make incremental cash contributions under local statutory law. the sources of our cash flow from operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations for the years ended september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007 were as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 2007 cash flows from operating activities: operating (loss) income $ (1,487 ) $ 1,941 $ (1,732 ) goodwill and intangible asset impairments 2,705 10 59 non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges, net 23 36 11 losses on divestitures 13 4 depreciation and amortization (1) 1,133 1,154 1,148 non-cash compensation expense 103 99 173 deferred income taxes (83 ) (94 ) (16 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 156 135 94 (gain) loss on the retirement of debt (2 ) 258 259 other, net 61 (124 ) (231 ) class action settlement liability (3,020 ) 2,992 net change in working capital 142 (646 ) (414 ) interest income 44 110 104 interest expense (301 ) (396 ) (313 ) income tax expense (78 ) (335 ) (324 ) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 2,429 $ (872 ) $ 1,814 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net (2) $ (696 ) $ (706 ) $ (643 ) decrease in sale of accounts receivable 10 14 7 accounts purchased from adt dealer program (543 ) (376 ) (409 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (2 ) (2 ) (10 ) voluntary pension contributions 22 4 23 (1) includes depreciation expense of $617 million, $626 million and $635 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and amortization of intangible assets of $516 million, $528 million and $513 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. (2) includes net proceeds of $13 million, $28 million and $23 million received for the sale/disposition of property, plant and equipment in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the net change in working capital increased operating cash flow by $142 million in 2009. the components of this change are set forth in detail in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the significant changes in working capital included a $367 million decrease in inventory, a $207 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $106 million decrease in contracts in progress, offset by a $352 million decrease in accounts payable and a $148 million decrease in income taxes, net. during 2009, we completed the sale of all of our remaining infrastructure services businesses for net cash proceeds of $66 million. we continue to fund capital expenditures to grow our business, improve the cost structure of our businesses, to invest in new processes and technology, and to maintain high quality production standards. the level of capital expenditures in 2010 is expected to exceed spending levels in 2009 and is also expected to exceed depreciation. 55 table of contents during 2009, 2008 and 2007 we paid out $154 million, $187 million and $70 million, respectively, in cash related to restructuring activities. see note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our restructuring activities. income taxes paid, net of refunds, related to continuing operations was $291 million, $501 million, and $649 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. during 2009, 2008 and 2007, tyco paid $543 million, $376 million and $409 million of cash, respectively, to acquire approximately 512,000, 370,000 and 415,000 customer contracts for electronic security services through the adt dealer program. as previously discussed, effective june 29, 2007, we completed the separation. in connection with the separation, we paid $68 million and $349 million in separation costs during 2008 and 2007 respectively. of these amounts, $36 million and $256 million were included in cash flows from discontinued operating activities, respectively. during the second quarter of 2008, tyco released $2,960 million of funds placed in escrow during the third quarter of 2007 as well as $60 million of interest earned on those funds for the benefit of the class as stipulated in the court's final order related to the class action settlement. we will continue to divest businesses that do not align with our overall strategy. we expect to use the proceeds from these sales, as well as the cash generated by our operations, to continue to make investments in our businesses that are intended to grow revenue and improve productivity, including our restructuring actions. we expect to also use cash to selectively pursue acquisitions. pursuant to our share repurchase program, we may repurchase tyco shares from time to time in open market purchases at prevailing market prices, in negotiated transactions off the market, or pursuant to an approved 10b5-1 trading plan in accordance with applicable regulations. management believes that cash generated by or available to us should be sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, including quarterly dividend payments. we intend to continue to repurchase shares under our existing $1.0 billion share repurchase program approved by our board of directors on july 10, 2008 depending on credit market conditions, macroeconomic factors and expectations regarding future cash flows. capitalization shareholders' equity was $12.9 billion or $27.30 per share, as of september 25, 2009, compared to $15.5 billion or $32.76 per share, as of september 26, 2008. shareholders' equity decreased primarily due to a net loss of $1.8 billion, which was primarily driven by goodwill and intangible asset impairments, dividends declared of $472 million, a $220 million current period change relating to the company's retirement plans and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $203 million. total debt was $4.3 billion as of september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008, respectively. total debt as a percentage of capitalization (total debt and shareholders' equity) was 25% as of september 25, 2009 and 22% as of september 26, 2008, respectively. our cash balance increased to $2.4 billion as of september 25, 2009, as compared to $1.5 billion as of september 26, 2008. this increase in cash was primarily due to cash generated by the operating segments as well as proceeds from issuance of long-term debt. 56 table of contents debt tenders in connection with the settlement of litigation arising from the separation related to our public debt, on june 3, 2008 we, along with our finance subsidiary tifsa, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company and successor company to tyco international group s.a. ("tigsa"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company organized under the laws of luxembourg, consummated consent solicitations and exchange offers related to certain series of debt issued under our 1998 and 2003 indentures. in connection with the exchange offers, we issued $422 million principal amount of 7.0% notes due 2019 in exchange for an equal principal amount of 7.0% notes due 2028 and $707 million principal amount of 6.875% notes due 2021 in exchange for an equal principal amount of 6.875% notes due 2029. in connection with the consent solicitations, holders of our 6.0% notes due 2013, 6.125% notes due 2008, 6.125% notes due 2009, 6.75% notes due 2011, 6.375% notes due 2011, 7.0% notes due 2028 and 6.875% notes due 2029 collectively received consent payments totaling $250 million. the terms of the consent and exchange offers were evaluated as a debt modification in accordance with the authoritative guidance for debtor's accounting for a modification or exchange of debt instruments, and it was determined that the 7.0% notes due 2028 and the 6.875% notes due 2029 were extinguished because the cash flows of the new bonds as compared to the original bonds were substantially modified. as a result, the new bonds and the 7.0% notes due 2028 and the 6.875% notes due 2029 that were not tendered for exchange were recorded at their fair value upon completion of the exchange offers. in determining fair value, we measured the bonds as if they were an initial issuance to the public. this was done by obtaining effective yield data derived from comparable pricing received from the issuance of bonds with similar ratings and covenants by large public companies. during the year ended september 26, 2008, in connection with the consent solicitations and exchange offers, we recorded a $222 million charge to other expense, net as a loss on extinguishment of debt. this charge was comprised of the consent payments related to the extinguished bonds (notes due 2028 and 2029), premium on the exchanged bonds which represents the difference between the fair value and the book value of the extinguished bonds, and the write-off of the original unamortized debt issuance costs, as well as fees paid to third-parties associated with the bonds that were not deemed extinguished. the remaining portion of the consent payment and issuance costs will be amortized over the remaining life of the bonds. during the year ended september 28, 2007, we recorded a $259 million charge to other expense, net for the loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the debt tender offers in connection with the separation. bank and revolving credit facilities on june 24, 2008, tyco and tifsa entered into a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit agreement with citibank, n.a., as administrative agent for the lenders party thereto. this credit agreement has a three-year term. borrowings under this agreement have a variable interest rate based on libor or an alternate base rate. the margin over libor can vary based on changes in our credit rating and facility utilization. together with our $1.19 billion five-year senior revolving credit agreement, dated as of april 25, 2007, our total committed revolving credit line was $1.69 billion as of september 25, 2009. these revolving credit facilities may be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. as of september 25, 2009, there were no amounts drawn under these facilities, although we had dedicated $200 million of availability to backstop outstanding commercial paper. as discussed above, we believe that all of the lenders under our revolving credit facility are capable of meeting any borrowing requests tifsa may make. tifsa's bank credit agreements contain customary terms and conditions, and financial covenants that limit the ratio of our debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and that limit our ability to incur subsidiary debt or grant liens on our property. our indentures contain 57 table of contents customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our business. the following tables detail our long-term and short-term debt ratings as of september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008: long-term debt ratings 2009 2008 moody's baa1 baa1 standard &amp; poor's bbb+ bbb+ fitch bbb+ bbb+ short-term debt ratings 2009 2008 moody's p-2 p-2 standard &amp; poor's a-2 a-2 fitch f2 f2 the security ratings set forth above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal by the assigning rating organization. each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. commitments and contingencies contractual obligations contractual obligations and commitments for principal debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and other obligations as of september 25, 2009 is as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total debt (1) $ 227 $ 516 $ 850 $ $ 656 $ 1,913 $ 4,162 interest payments (2) 273 255 211 184 164 801 1,888 capital leases (3) 18 24 3 4 4 38 91 operating leases 253 203 147 89 51 123 866 purchase obligations (4) 90 5 3 98 total contractual cash obligations (5) (6) $ 861 $ 1,003 $ 1,214 $ 277 $ 875 $ 2,875 $ 7,105 (1) excludes debt discount and swap activity. (2) interest payments consist of interest on our fixed interest rate debt and exclude the impact of our interest rate swaps. (3) excludes interest. (4) purchase obligations consist of commitments for purchases of good and services. (5) other long-term liabilities primarily consist of the following: pension and postretirement costs, income taxes, warranties and environmental liabilities and are excluded from this table. we are unable to estimate the timing of payment for these items due to the inherent uncertainties of obligations of this type. the minimum required contributions to our pension plans are expected to be approximately $80 million in 2010 and we expect to pay $7 million in 2010 related to postretirement benefit plans. (6) as of september 25, 2009, we recorded gross unrecognized tax benefits of $284 million and gross interest and penalties of $50 million, both of which are classified as non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. at this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing for such payments in future years; therefore, such amounts have been excluded from the above contractual obligation table. 58 table of contents as discussed above, as of september 25, 2009, we had total commitments of $1.69 billion under our revolving credit facilities, $500 million of which matures on june 24, 2011 and $1.19 billion of which matures on april 25, 2012. as of september 25, 2009, there were no amounts drawn under our revolving credit facilities. as of september 25, 2009, the aggregate available commitment under our senior revolving credit facilities was $1.69 billion, $200 million of which was dedicated to backstop all of our commercial paper outstanding as of such date. in may 2008, tifsa commenced issuing commercial paper to u.s. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers. borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes. as of september 25, 2009, tifsa had $200 million of commercial paper outstanding which bore interest at an average rate of 0.33%. as of september 25, 2009, we classified the outstanding commercial paper balance of $200 million as short-term as we intend to repay such amount during the next twelve months. as of september 26, 2008, we classified $116 million of short-term commercial paper as long-term as settlement of the amount outstanding was not expected to require the use of working capital in the next twelve months as we had both the intent and the ability to refinance this debt on a long-term basis. as of september 25, 2009, we had total outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees of $659 million. in the normal course of business, we are liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in connection with the separation, we entered into a liability sharing agreement regarding certain actions that were pending against tyco prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, we have assumed 27%, covidien has assumed 42% and tyco electronics has assumed 31% of certain tyco pre-separation contingent and other corporate liabilities, which include certain outstanding legacy and tax contingencies and any actions with respect to the spin-offs or the distributions made or brought by any third party. any amounts relating to these contingent and other corporate liabilities paid by tyco after the spin-offs that are subject to the allocation provisions of the separation and distribution agreement or tax sharing agreement will be shared among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics pursuant to the same allocation ratio. legal matters class action and legacy securities matters for a discussion of contingencies related to tyco's legacy securities litigation and various legal matters, see item 3. legal proceedings class action settlement and legacy securities matters. adverse outcomes in certain actions to which we are a party could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. environmental matters tyco is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's environmental matters, see item 1. business environmental matters and item 3. legal proceedings environmental matters. asbestos matters tyco and certain of its subsidiaries are named as defendants in bodily injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. for a detailed discussion of tyco's contingencies related to asbestos-related matters, see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. 59 table of contents income taxes tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest have been assessed as uncertain income tax positions and recorded as appropriate. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's income taxes, see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. compliance matters tyco has received and responded to various allegations and other information that improper activities were conducted by tyco employees in recent years, in particular with respect to doj and sec investigations that have resulted in our performing a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices as they relate to the foreign corrupt practices act. for a detailed discussion of these contingencies and others related to tyco's compliance efforts, see item 3. legal proceedings compliance matters. other matters the company is a defendant in a number of other pending legal proceedings incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. the company does not expect the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. backlog as of september 25, 2009, we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $9.0 billion, compared to a backlog of $9.6 billion as of september 26, 2008. we expect that approximately 86% of our backlog as of september 25, 2009 will be filled during 2010. backlog by segment as of september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 is as follows ($ in millions): 2009 2008 adt worldwide $ 5,908 $ 5,917 flow control 1,698 2,083 fire protection services 1,169 1,314 electrical and metal products 72 117 safety products 114 154 $ 8,961 $ 9,585 backlog decreased by $624 million, or 6.5%, from $9.6 billion as of september 26, 2008 to $9.0 billion as of september 25, 2009. unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease of $87 million. adt worldwide's backlog decreased by $9 million, or 0.2%, as of september 25, 2009. the decrease was primarily due to unfavorable exchange rates of $83 million partially offset by an increase in net bookings of $74 million. adt worldwide's total account base grew 2.9% during 2009 to 7.4 million accounts. the amount of recurring revenue-in-force as of september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 was $4.0 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively. the increase in recurring revenue-in-force was primarily the result of the increase in the account base discussed above partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. recurring revenue-in-force represents 12 months' fees for monitoring and maintenance services under contract in the security business. flow control's backlog decreased by $385 million primarily due to decreased bookings of $398 million offset by favorable exchange rates of $13 million. fire protection services 60 table of contents backlog decreased by $145 million primarily due to unfavorable exchange rates of $15 million and decreased bookings of $130 million. off-balance sheet arrangements sale of accounts receivable certain of tyco's international businesses utilize the sale of accounts receivable as short-term financing mechanisms. the aggregate amount outstanding under the company's remaining international accounts receivable programs was $55 million, $65 million and $76 million as of september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively. guarantees certain of our business segments have guaranteed the performance of third-parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. the terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from 2009 through the completion of such transactions. the guarantees would typically be triggered in the event of nonperformance and performance under the guarantees, if required, would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are certain guarantees or indemnifications extended among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics in accordance with the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement. the guarantees primarily relate to certain contingent tax liabilities included in the tax sharing agreement. at the time of the separation, we recorded a liability necessary to recognize the fair value of such guarantees and indemnifications. in the absence of observable transactions for identical or similar guarantees, we determined the fair value of these guarantees and indemnifications utilizing expected present value measurement techniques. significant assumptions utilized to determine fair value included determining a range of potential outcomes, assigning a probability weighting to each potential outcome and estimating the anticipated timing of resolution. the probability weighted outcomes were discounted using our incremental borrowing rate. the liability necessary to reflect the fair value of the guarantees and indemnifications under the tax sharing agreement is $554 million, which is included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets as of september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008. the guarantees primarily relate to certain contingent tax liabilities included in the tax sharing agreement. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the tax sharing agreement. in addition, we historically provided support in the form of financial and/or performance guarantees to various covidien and tyco electronics operating entities. in connection with the separation, we worked with the guarantee counterparties to cancel or assign these guarantees to covidien or tyco electronics. to the extent these guarantees were not assigned prior to the separation date, we assumed primary liability on any remaining such support. the estimated fair value of these obligations is $4 million and $7 million, which are included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets as of september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008, respectively, with an offset to shareholders' equity on the separation date. in disposing of assets or businesses, we often provide representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. we have no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. see item 1. business environmental matters and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these liabilities. 61 table of contents in the normal course of business, we are liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. as of september 25, 2009, we had total outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees of $659 million. we record estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. for further information on estimated product warranty, see notes 1 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements. in 2001, a division of safety products initiated a voluntary replacement program ("vrp") associated with the acquisition of central sprinkler. the vrp relates to the replacement of certain o-ring seal sprinkler heads which were originally manufactured by central sprinkler prior to tyco's acquisition. under this program, the sprinkler heads are being replaced free of charge to property owners. on may 1, 2007, we, along with the consumer products safety commission announced an august 31, 2007 deadline for filing claims to participate in the vrp. we will fulfill all valid claims for replacement of qualifying sprinklers received up to august 31, 2007. settlements during 2009, 2008 and 2007 include cash expenditures of $33 million, $49 million and $38 million, respectively, related to the vrp. the company believes the remaining liability represents our best estimate of the cost required to complete the vrp as of september 25, 2009, which is not material. 62 table of contents accounting pronouncements recently adopted accounting pronouncements in june 2009, the financial accounting standards board ("fasb") issued authoritative guidance which established the fasb standards accounting codification ("codification") as the source of authoritative gaap recognized by the fasb to be applied to nongovernmental entities, and rules and interpretive releases of the sec as authoritative gaap for sec registrants. the codification supersedes all the existing non-sec accounting and reporting standards upon its effective date and, subsequently, the fasb will not issue new standards in the form of statements, fasb staff positions or emerging issues task force abstracts. the guidance is not intended to change or alter existing gaap. the guidance became effective for tyco in the fourth quarter of 2009. the guidance did not have an impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. all references to previous numbering of fasb statements, fasb staff positions or emerging issues task force abstracts have been removed from the financial statements and accompanying footnotes. in may 2009, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for subsequent events. the guidance provides authoritative accounting literature related to evaluating subsequent events that was previously addressed only in the auditing literature. the guidance is similar to the current guidance with some exceptions that are not intended to result in significant change to current practice. the guidance defines subsequent events and also requires the disclosure of the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events and the basis for that date. the company adopted the disclosure provisions of the guidance as of june 26, 2009. the adoption did not have an impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in april 2009, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for interim disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, which amended existing guidance. the guidance requires disclosures about fair value of financial instruments in interim financial statements as well as in annual financial statements. the company adopted the disclosure provisions of the guidance as of june 26, 2009. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the adoption of the guidance. the adoption did not have an impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in march 2008, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. the guidance is intended to improve financial reporting about derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced disclosures to enable investors to better understand their effects on an entity's results of operations. the company adopted the disclosure provisions of the guidance as of december 27, 2008. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the adoption of the guidance. the adoption did not have an impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in february 2007, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities. the guidance permits an entity, on a contract-by-contract basis, to make an irrevocable election to account for certain types of financial instruments and warranty and insurance contracts at fair value, rather than historical cost, with changes in the fair value, whether realized or unrealized, recognized in earnings. the guidance became effective for the company in the first quarter of 2009 at which time the company did not elect the fair value option for eligible items. in september 2006, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, which enhances existing guidance for measuring assets and liabilities at fair value. the guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure about fair value measurements. in february 2008, the fasb issued authoritative guidance which permits companies to partially defer the effective date of the guidance for one year for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. during the first quarter of 2009 the company elected to defer the adoption of the guidance for one year for non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis which is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, on a 63 table of contents prospective basis. the guidance became effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 for financial assets and liabilities only. the adoption did not have a material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the adoption of the guidance. in september 2006, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. the guidance requires that employers recognize the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as a net asset or liability on the consolidated balance sheets and recognize as a component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of income taxes, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period but are not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. the company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of the guidance as of september 28, 2007. the guidance also requires companies to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of their fiscal year end. the company adopted the measurement date provisions of the guidance on september 27, 2008. as a result, tyco measured its plan assets and benefit obligations on september 26, 2008 and adjusted its opening balances of accumulated (deficit) earnings and accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the change in net periodic benefit cost and fair value, respectively, from the previously used measurement date of august 31, 2008. the adoption of the measurement date provisions resulted in a net decrease to accumulated (deficit) earnings of $5 million, net of an income tax benefit of $2 million, and a net increase to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income of $61 million, net of income taxes of $28 million for 2009. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the adoption of the guidance. recently issued accounting pronouncements in september 2009, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for the accounting for revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. the guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. the selling price used for each deliverable will be based on vendor-specific objective evidence if available, third-party evidence if vendor-specific objective evidence is not available, or estimated selling price if neither vendor-specific evidence nor third-party evidence is available. the guidance requires arrangements under which multiple revenue generating activities to be performed be allocated at inception. the residual method under the existing accounting guidance has been eliminated. the guidance expands the disclosure requirements related to multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. the guidance becomes effective for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified beginning in fiscal 2011, with early adoption permitted. the guidance applies on a prospective basis unless the company specifically elects to apply the guidance retrospectively. the company is currently assessing what impact, if any, the guidance will have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows, as well as the timing of its adoption of the guidance. in june 2009, the fasb issued authoritative guidance which amended the existing guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities, to address the elimination of the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. the guidance also replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards calculation for determining which enterprise has a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity with an approach focused on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity, and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity. additionally, the guidance requires any enterprise that holds a variable interest in a variable interest entity to provide enhanced disclosures that will provide users of financial statements with more transparent information about an enterprise's involvement in a variable interest entity. the guidance is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. the company is currently assessing what impact, if any, that the guidance will have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in december 2008, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for employers' disclosures about postretirement benefit plan assets. the guidance requires additional disclosures about plan assets related to an employer's defined benefit pension or other post-retirement plans to enable investors to 64 table of contents better understand how investment decisions are made, the major categories of plan assets, the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets, the effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) on changes in plan assets for the period, and the significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. the disclosure provisions of the guidance are effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. in june 2008, the fasb ratified authoritative guidance for determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities. the guidance addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment awards are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, must be included in the earnings allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two-class method. the guidance requires that unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend-equivalents be treated as participating securities in calculating earnings per share. the guidance is effective for tyco starting with the first quarter of fiscal 2010, and shall be applied retrospectively to all prior periods. the company believes that the guidance will not have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in april 2008, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for determining the useful life of intangible assets. the guidance amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset. the guidance is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the company has determined that the guidance will not have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in december 2007, the fasb revised the authoritative guidance for business combinations. the revised guidance retains the underlying concepts of the existing guidance in that business combinations are still accounted for at fair value. however, the accounting for certain other aspects of business combinations will be affected. acquisition costs will generally be expensed as incurred. restructuring costs associated with a business combination will generally be expensed subsequent to the acquisition date. in-process research and development will be recorded at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible at the acquisition date until it is completed or abandoned and its useful life can be determined. changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and uncertain tax positions after the acquisition date will generally impact income tax expense. the revised guidance also expands required disclosures surrounding the nature and financial effects of business combinations. the revised guidance is effective, on a prospective basis, for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. in december 2007, the fasb issued authoritative guidance for noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. the guidance requires the recognition of a noncontrolling interest (minority interest prior to the adoption of the guidance) as equity in the consolidated financial statements. the amount of net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest should be included in consolidated net income on the face of the consolidated statements of operations. the guidance also amends certain existing consolidation procedures in order to achieve consistency with the requirements of the revised authoritative guidance for business combinations discussed above. the guidance also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its noncontrolling interest. this guidance is effective for tyco in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. the implementation of the guidance will not have a material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the 65 table of contents normal course of business through meetings, web casts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating efficiencies, product expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions; the demand for tyco's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which tyco competes; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigation and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations including its business operations outside the united states; the outcome of litigation and governmental proceedings; effect of income tax audit settlements; our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including availability of funding sources and currency exchange rate fluctuations; availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials, including steel and copper; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and six sigma initiatives and our ability to execute our portfolio refinement and acquisition strategies; potential further impairment of our goodwill and/or our long-lived assets; the impact of fluctuations in the price of tyco common shares; risks associated with the change in our jurisdiction of incorporation from bermuda to switzerland, including the possibility of reduced flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management, increased or different regulatory burdens, and the possibility that we may not realize anticipated tax benefits; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. governmental laws and regulations; and the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the united states that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco's jurisdiction of incorporation or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its jurisdiction of incorporation. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk 66 table of contents management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures we believe we are subject to. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign currency options, interest rate swaps and forward commodity contracts. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having at least an a-/a3 long-term debt rating. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. foreign currency exposures we hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts. during 2009, our largest exposures to foreign exchange rates existed primarily with the swiss franc, british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign currency exchange contracts (excluding the dividend hedge contract discussed below) is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 25, 2009. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $6 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $7 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. effective march 17, 2009, tyco changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from bermuda to switzerland. until january 1, 2011 tyco intends to make dividend payments in the form of a reduction of capital denominated in swiss francs. however, the company expects to actually pay dividends in u.s. dollars, based on exchange rates in effect shortly before the payment date. fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to the swiss franc between the date the dividend is declared and paid will increase or decrease the u.s. dollar amount required to be paid. the company manages the potential variability in cash flows associated with the dividend payments by entering into derivative financial instruments used as economic hedges of the underlying risk. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the swiss franc would result in a $20 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the swiss franc would result in a $24 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. previously, we hedged our investment in certain foreign operations. in december 2006, due to required changes to the legal entity structure to facilitate the separation, the company determined that it would no longer consider certain intercompany foreign currency transactions to be long-term investments. as a result, the related foreign currency transaction gains and losses on such investments were recorded in the consolidated statements of operations subsequent to this determination rather than in the currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income within shareholders' equity. forward contracts that were previously designated as hedges of these net investments continued to be used to manage this exposure but were no longer designated as net investment hedges. during fiscal 2009, we designated certain intercompany loans as permanent in nature. as of september 25, 2009, $3.0 billion of intercompany loans have been designated as permanent in nature and for the year ended september 25, 2009, we recorded the cumulative translation loss through 67 table of contents accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income related to these loans, which had no material impact for fiscal 2009 and $141 million for fiscal 2008. interest rate exposures our long-term debt portfolio primarily consists of fixed-rate instruments. the company manages its interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap transactions with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties, which were designated as fair value hedges for accounting purposes. during 2009, the company entered into the interest rate swap transactions with the objective of managing the exposure to interest rate risk by converting the interest rates on $1.4 billion of fixed-rate debt to variable rates. in these contracts, the company agreed with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated on an agreed-upon notional principal amount. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates relative to interest rates as of september 25, 2009 would result in a $22 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates relative to interest rates as of september 25, 2009 would result in a $22 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. commodity exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of raw materials used in some of our products and may, in limited circumstances, enter into hedging contracts to manage those exposures. these exposures are monitored as an integral part of our risk management program. during 2009, the company did not hedge its exposure attributable to changes in commodity prices but may consider such strategies in the future.risk factors 11 risk factors risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters and item 3. legal proceedings. environmental matters we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $27 million to $85 million. as of september 24, 2010, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $34 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $16 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. in view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. employees as of september 24, 2010, we employed approximately 108,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 41,000 are employed in the united states and 67,000 are outside the united states. approximately 29,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. 10 table of contents available information tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. investors may read and copy any document that tyco files, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, dc 20549. investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec, from which investors can electronically access tyco's sec filings. our internet website is www.tyco.com . we make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, reports filed pursuant to section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the securities and exchange commission. as a swiss company, we prepare swiss statutory financial statements, including swiss consolidated financial statements, on an annual basis. a copy of the swiss statutory financial statements is distributed along with our annual report to shareholders, and all of the aforementioned reports will be made available to our shareholders upon their request. in addition, we have posted the charters for our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee, and nominating and governance committee, as well as our board governance principles and guide to ethical conduct, on our website under the heading "corporate citizenship governance." the annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. we will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as technological obsolescence, labor relations, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. risks relating to our businesses general economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain industries in which we operate. for example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial construction, the amount of discretionary consumer and business spending, and the performance of the housing market, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. recent economic weakness has adversely affected our businesses. for example, weakness in the north american and european non-residential construction markets have adversely impacted the system installation and service portion of our adt worldwide business, and weak global economic conditions have also adversely impacted our flow control business. continued weakness in the u.s. or global economies, or in the industries in which we operate, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 table of contents we face intense competition in each of our businesses, and competitive challenges from lower cost manufacturers. if we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected. we operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service providers, both domestically and on a global basis. our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from alternative service providers around the world. key components of our competitive position are our ability to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. this requires continuous management focus on reducing costs, maintaining our competitive position and improving efficiency through cost controls, productivity enhancements and regular appraisal of our asset portfolio. if we are unable to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our operating results may be adversely affected. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to successfully compete with new and existing competitors by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and potential new entrants in our markets. for example, a number of cable and other telecommunications companies have introduced interactive security services that are competitive with the products and services offered through our adt worldwide business. although these competitive products and services are currently in the initial stages of development and test marketing, if they were to be aggressively marketed and gained market acceptance, our ability to grow our adt worldwide business could be materially adversely affected. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; develop, acquire and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our products and services by adding innovative features that differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; and develop or acquire, manufacture and bring products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. our ability to develop or acquire new products and services based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. as a result, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance or their obsolescence could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our adt business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. although attrition rates for customers in our adt worldwide business decreased over the prior year to an average of 12.8% for 2010, as compared to 13.3% for 2009, and 12.9% in 2008, attrition rates may increase in the future due to reasons such as customer dissatisfaction or competitive offerings. in periods of increasing attrition rates, adt's recurring revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's contracts and related customer relationships purchased through the adt dealer program based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if attrition rates were to rise significantly, 12 table of contents tyco may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. we generated 51% of our net revenue outside of the united states in 2010. we expect net revenue generated outside of the united states to continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; changes in enacted tax laws; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and fluctuations in revenues, operating margins and other financial measures due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations or cash flows. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2010 was 51% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. therefore, if the u.s. dollar has strengthened in relation to the principle foreign currencies where we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheet data and average exchange rates for statement of operations data). in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in 13 table of contents recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. this is most pronounced in our electrical and metal products segment, which we have agreed to sell a 51% interest, where fluctuations in the price of copper and steel can negatively affect both revenue and operating margins. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. for example, we recently announced that we have agreed to sell a 51% interest in our electrical and metal products business segment to an affiliate of clayton, dubilier and rice, llc for approximately $720 million. the sale is expected to close in the first half of 2011. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. in addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. 14 table of contents if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. the company's culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular it strives to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. if we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, the company's operations could be adversely affected. in addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. the demand for experienced management in certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified employees. high turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact the company's operating results. we have recognized substantial impairment charges in the past and may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. during the second fiscal quarter of 2009, we recognized aggregate goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $2.7 billion, resulting primarily from a slowdown in the commercial markets including the retailer end market in certain of our businesses; a decline in sales volume at our electrical and metal products segment; and downward revisions to forecasted results, restructuring actions and weaker industry outlooks. as a result, the company recognized an aggregate goodwill impairment of $2.6 billion ($2.6 billion after-tax) at six of our reporting units and intangible asset impairments of $64 million ($40 million after-tax). the company believes that our goodwill balance as of september 24, 2010 is recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 table of contents risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to a significant number of claims and are named as a defendant in numerous lawsuits, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products or services, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, litigation related to environmental matters, product liability litigation (including asbestos-related claims), and litigation related to employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. legislative action by the u.s. congress could materially, adversely affect us. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely, which would adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subjected to increased taxation. also, various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to u.s. companies that move their locations abroad. we cannot assure you that such legislation, if enacted, would not apply to us. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the u.s. but are domiciled abroad. we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such criticism as a result of our domicile in switzerland. changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our adt worldwide segment relies heavily upon both wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals, and these technologies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 16 table of contents we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in fcpa enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. furthermore, we are subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries and agents in recent years in violation of the fcpa. we have continued to report to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations and our own internal investigations. in 2005, we informed the doj and the sec that we had retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to the fcpa. the baseline review, which has been completed, has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements. in february 2010, we initiated discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters. active discussions are ongoing; however, the timing for ultimately reaching resolution as well as the outcome of this matter remains uncertain. in connection with the resolution of these matters, it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, consent to the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other civil or criminal penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants or a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, business prospects or the market value of our stock. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the separation, primarily those relating to pre-separation income tax liabilities. under the separation and distribution agreement, the tax sharing agreement and other agreements entered in connection with the separation, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. all 17 table of contents costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to pre-separation income tax liabilities. liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies are not allocated. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. we are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install, including claims arising from exposure to asbestos. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. we have been named in a significant number of lawsuits alleging damages based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos through the past distribution of asbestos-containing industrial products. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot assure you, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we 18 table of contents reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs of approximately $27 million to $85 million as of september 24, 2010. as of september 24, 2010, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $34 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $16 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as of september 24, 2010. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. risks related to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in the company's subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slow down in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse affects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. 19 table of contents covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. risks relating to tax matters we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities that result in cash payments, based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities 20 table of contents to our, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will generally be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in connection with the execution of the tax sharing agreement, we established receivables from covidien and tyco electronics representing the amount we expected to receive for pre-separation uncertain tax positions. we also established liabilities representing the fair market value of our share of their estimated obligations under the tax sharing agreement. as of september 24, 2010, we had recorded $89 million in other assets and $25 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets representing the receivables from covidien and tyco electronics. we had also recorded $398 million in other liabilities and $156 million in accrued and other current liabilities representing our estimated obligations to covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the separation. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. although we expect to resolve a substantial number of the proposed tax adjustments with the irs, a few significant items are expected to remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, it is unlikely that we will be able to resolve these open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany transactions during the period, through the irs appeals process. as a result, we may be required to litigate these matters. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. we have assessed our obligations under the tax sharing agreement and determined that the recorded liability is sufficient to cover the indemnifications made by us under such agreement. however, such amount could differ materially from amounts that are actually determined to be due, and any such difference could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 21 table of contents if the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. the private letter rulings relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and tyco electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and tyco electronics common shares distributed to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of tyco's securities. because of differences between swiss law and u.s state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of swiss companies incorporated in the u.s., it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against tyco international based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states in switzerland. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon tyco or its directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; 22 table of contents the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. as a result of our change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland and the increase in the par value of our shares, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. in connection with our change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland, we significantly increased the par value of our shares. currently the par value of our shares is chf 7.16 (or approximately $7.41 based on the exchange rate in effect on november 8, 2010). under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value. as of november 8, 2010 the closing price of our ordinary shares on the nyse was $39.11. in the event there is a need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our registered shares is below our par value, we would need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our registered shares. we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval in a timely manner. obtaining shareholder approval would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. if we were to receive shareholder approval to reduce the par value of our registered shares, the reduction would decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital, which may subject you to swiss withholding tax. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2010 was 51% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. therefore, if the u.s. dollar has strengthened in relation to the principle foreign currencies where we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheet data and average exchange rates for statement of operations data). in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in 13 table of contents recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. this is most pronounced in our electrical and metal products segment, which we have agreed to sell a 51% interest, where fluctuations in the price of copper and steel can negatively affect both revenue and operating margins. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. for example, we recently announced that we have agreed to sell a 51% interest in our electrical and metal products business segment to an affiliate of clayton, dubilier and rice, llc for approximately $720 million. the sale is expected to close in the first half of 2011. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. in addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. 14 table of contents if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. the company's culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular it strives to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. if we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, the company's operations could be adversely affected. in addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. the demand for experienced management in certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified employees. high turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact the company's operating results. we have recognized substantial impairment charges in the past and may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in additional charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. during the second fiscal quarter of 2009, we recognized aggregate goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $2.7 billion, resulting primarily from a slowdown in the commercial markets including the retailer end market in certain of our businesses; a decline in sales volume at our electrical and metal products segment; and downward revisions to forecasted results, restructuring actions and weaker industry outlooks. as a result, the company recognized an aggregate goodwill impairment of $2.6 billion ($2.6 billion after-tax) at six of our reporting units and intangible asset impairments of $64 million ($40 million after-tax). the company believes that our goodwill balance as of september 24, 2010 is recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 table of contents risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to a significant number of claims and are named as a defendant in numerous lawsuits, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products or services, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, litigation related to environmental matters, product liability litigation (including asbestos-related claims), and litigation related to employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. legislative action by the u.s. congress could materially, adversely affect us. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely, which would adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subjected to increased taxation. also, various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to u.s. companies that move their locations abroad. we cannot assure you that such legislation, if enacted, would not apply to us. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the u.s. but are domiciled abroad. we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such criticism as a result of our domicile in switzerland. changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our adt worldwide segment relies heavily upon both wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals, and these technologies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 16 table of contents we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in fcpa enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. furthermore, we are subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries and agents in recent years in violation of the fcpa. we have continued to report to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations and our own internal investigations. in 2005, we informed the doj and the sec that we had retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of our policies, controls and practices with respect to the fcpa. the baseline review, which has been completed, has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements. in february 2010, we initiated discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters. active discussions are ongoing; however, the timing for ultimately reaching resolution as well as the outcome of this matter remains uncertain. in connection with the resolution of these matters, it is possible that we will be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, consent to the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other civil or criminal penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants or a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, business prospects or the market value of our stock. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the separation, primarily those relating to pre-separation income tax liabilities. under the separation and distribution agreement, the tax sharing agreement and other agreements entered in connection with the separation, subject to certain exceptions contained in the tax sharing agreement, we, covidien and tyco electronics have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities. all 17 table of contents costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to pre-separation income tax liabilities. liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies are not allocated. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. we are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install, including claims arising from exposure to asbestos. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. we have been named in a significant number of lawsuits alleging damages based on claims that individuals were exposed to asbestos through the past distribution of asbestos-containing industrial products. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot assure you, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we 18 table of contents reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and oil spill equipment upgrades and replacement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs of approximately $27 million to $85 million as of september 24, 2010. as of september 24, 2010, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $34 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $16 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as of september 24, 2010. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. risks related to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in the company's subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slow down in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse affects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. 19 table of contents covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our revolving lines of credit will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes, including dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. risks relating to tax matters we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' income tax liabilities that result in cash payments, based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities 20 table of contents to our, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will generally be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and tyco electronics are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in connection with the execution of the tax sharing agreement, we established receivables from covidien and tyco electronics representing the amount we expected to receive for pre-separation uncertain tax positions. we also established liabilities representing the fair market value of our share of their estimated obligations under the tax sharing agreement. as of september 24, 2010, we had recorded $89 million in other assets and $25 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets representing the receivables from covidien and tyco electronics. we had also recorded $398 million in other liabilities and $156 million in accrued and other current liabilities representing our estimated obligations to covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and tyco electronics' tax liabilities. examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the separation. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. although we expect to resolve a substantial number of the proposed tax adjustments with the irs, a few significant items are expected to remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, it is unlikely that we will be able to resolve these open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany transactions during the period, through the irs appeals process. as a result, we may be required to litigate these matters. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. we have assessed our obligations under the tax sharing agreement and determined that the recorded liability is sufficient to cover the indemnifications made by us under such agreement. however, such amount could differ materially from amounts that are actually determined to be due, and any such difference could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 21 table of contents if the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and tyco electronics common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the "code"). the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. the private letter rulings relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and tyco electronics regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and tyco electronics common shares distributed to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation should be treated as taxable transactions. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of tyco's securities. because of differences between swiss law and u.s state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of swiss companies incorporated in the u.s., it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against tyco international based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states in switzerland. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon tyco or its directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; 22 table of contents the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. as a result of our change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland and the increase in the par value of our shares, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. in connection with our change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland, we significantly increased the par value of our shares. currently the par value of our shares is chf 7.16 (or approximately $7.41 based on the exchange rate in effect on november 8, 2010). under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value. as of november 8, 2010 the closing price of our ordinary shares on the nyse was $39.11. in the event there is a need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our registered shares is below our par value, we would need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our registered shares. we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval in a timely manner. obtaining shareholder approval would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. if we were to receive shareholder approval to reduce the par value of our registered shares, the reduction would decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital, which may subject you to swiss withholding tax. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties our operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world aggregating approximately 35 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately 15 million square feet are owned and approximately 20 million square feet are leased. these facilities house manufacturing, distribution and warehousing operations, as well as sales and marketing, engineering and administrative offices. adt worldwide operates through a network of offices and service facilities located in north america, central america, south america, europe, the middle east, the asia-pacific region and south africa. the group occupies approximately 7 million square feet, of which 1 million square feet are owned and 6 million square feet are leased. flow control has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 11 million square feet, of which 6 million square feet are owned and 5 million square feet are leased. fire protection services operates through a network of offices located in north america, central america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 5 million square feet, all of which are leased. electrical and metal products has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 5 million square feet are owned and 1 million square feet are leased. safety products operates through a network of offices located in north america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. our safety products manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers are located in north america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 6 million square feet, of which 3 million square feet are owned and 3 million square feet are leased. 23 table of contents in the opinion of management, our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. we do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. see note 14 to consolidated financial statements for a description of our lease obligations. item 3. legal proceedings as previously disclosed, the company and certain of its officers and directors were subject to a number of lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state securities laws and related claims. since june 2007, the company has resolved substantially all of these claims, although a number of matters have not reached final resolution. the most significant of these is the previously disclosed settlement for $79 million of the stumpf v. tyco international ltd. matter , a class action lawsuit arising from tyco's july 2000 initial public offering of common stock of tycom ltd. the settlement received final court approval on august 25, 2010 from the united states district court for the district of new jersey, although certain contingencies for the matter will remain outstanding until the end of calendar year 2010. the settlement is subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement with covidien and tyco electronics. the company believes its remaining reserve related to legacy securities matters is sufficient to satisfy the final resolution of this matter. tyco is also a party to several lawsuits involving disputes with former management, among which are affirmative cases brought by tyco against mr. dennis l. kozlowski, tyco's former chief executive officer, mr. mark swartz, its former chief financial officer, and mr. frank walsh jr., a former director. in connection with these affirmative actions, messrs. kozlowski and swartz are seeking an aggregate of approximately $128 million allegedly due in connection with their compensation and retention arrangements and under erisa, and mr. walsh has made claims alleging that tyco is required to indemnify him for his defense costs and settlement amounts paid by him in connection with securities lawsuits and arising from his role as a tyco director. tyco intends to vigorously defend each of these actions. in october 2010, the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york denied tyco's affirmative claims against mr. walsh. tyco intends to appeal this decision. mr. walsh's claims for indemnification against tyco remain outstanding. tyco has reserved its best estimate of probable loss for these matters, and although their ultimate resolution could differ materially from these estimates, it does not believe any such resolution would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. environmental matters tyco is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. as of september 24, 2010, tyco concluded that it was probable that it would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $27 million to $85 million. as of september 24, 2010, tyco concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $34 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $16 million is included in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet. in view of the company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters, the company believes that any potential payments of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. asbestos matters the company and certain of its subsidiaries along with numerous other companies are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with 24 table of contents asbestos-containing components manufactured by third-parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. while the company has observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims, a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed by the courts. the company's strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, where appropriate, settling suits before trial. although a large percentage of litigated suits have been dismissed, the company cannot predict the extent to which it will be successful in resolving lawsuits in the future. of the lawsuits that have proceeded to trial since 2005, the company has won or settled all but one case, with that one case returning an adverse jury verdict for approximately $7.7 million, which included both compensatory and punitive damages. the company recently settled the matter while its appeal was pending for significantly less than the amount awarded by the jury. as of september 24, 2010, there were approximately 3,500 lawsuits pending against the company and its subsidiaries. each lawsuit typically includes several claims, and the company has determined that there were approximately 4,700 claims outstanding as of september 24, 2010, which amount reflects the company's current estimate of the number of active claims made against it or its affiliates, and includes adjustments for claims that are not actively being prosecuted, identify incorrect defendants or are duplicative of other actions. for a detailed discussion of asbestos-related matters, see note 14 of the consolidated financial statements. income tax matters the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the separation. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. although we expect to resolve a substantial number of the proposed tax adjustments with the irs, a few significant items are expected to remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, it is unlikely that we will be able to resolve these open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany transactions during the period, through the irs appeals process. as a result, we may be required to litigate these matters. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. we have assessed our obligations under the tax sharing agreement and determined that the recorded liability is sufficient to cover the indemnifications made by us under such agreement. however, such amount could differ materially from amounts that are actually determined to be due, and any such difference could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or the effective tax rate in future reporting periods. for a detailed discussion of income tax matters and audits, see note 6 of the consolidated financial statements. compliance matters as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, the company has received and responded to various allegations and other information that certain improper payments were made by the company's subsidiaries and agents in recent years. for example, two subsidiaries in the company's flow control business in italy have been charged, along with numerous other parties, in connection with the milan public prosecutor's investigation into allegedly improper payments made to certain italian entities, and the company has reported to german authorities potentially improper conduct 25 table of contents involving agents retained by the company's emea water business. the company has since resolved this matter with german authorities while the italian matter remains outstanding. the company reported to the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it has taken in response to these and other allegations and its internal investigations. in 2005, the company informed the doj and the sec that it retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), and that it would continue to investigate and make periodic progress reports to these agencies. the company has and will continue to communicate with the doj and sec to provide updates on the baseline review and follow-up investigations, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper conduct identified by the company in the course of its ongoing compliance activities. the baseline review, which has been completed, has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements, and in february 2010, the company initiated discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters. active discussions remain ongoing, and the company cannot predict the timing of their resolution or their outcome and cannot estimate the range of potential loss or the form of penalty that may result from an adverse resolution. it is possible that the company may be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, consent to the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which may have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. covidien and tyco electronics agreed, in connection with the separation, to cooperate with the company in its responses regarding these matters. any judgment required to be paid or settlement or other cost incurred by the company in connection with the fcpa investigations matters would be subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, which assigned liabilities primarily related to the former healthcare and electronics businesses of the company to covidien and tyco electronics, respectively, and provides that the company will retain liabilities primarily related to its continuing operations. any liabilities not primarily related to a particular segment will be shared equally among the company, covidien and tyco electronics. as previously disclosed, in early 2007 certain former subsidiaries in the company's flow control business were charged by the german federal cartel office ("fco") with engaging in anti-competitive practices, in particular with regard to its hydrant, valve, street box and fittings business. the company investigated this matter and determined that the conduct may have violated german anti-trust law. the company is cooperating with the fco in its ongoing investigation of this violation. the company cannot estimate the range of potential loss that may result from this violation. it is possible that the company may be subject to civil or criminal proceedings and may be required to pay judgments, suffer penalties or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. erisa partial withdrawal liability assessment and demand on june 8, 2007, simplexgrinnell received a notice alleging that it had partially withdrawn from the national automatic sprinkler industry pension fund (the "fund"). under title iv of erisa, if the fund can prove that an employer completely or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan such as the fund, the employer is liable for withdrawal liability equal to its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits. the alleged withdrawal results from a 1994 labor dispute between grinnell fire protection systems, simplexgrinnell's predecessor, and road sprinkler fitters local union no. 669. erisa requires that payment of withdrawal liability be made in full or in quarterly installments commencing upon receipt of a liability assessment from the plan. a plan's assessment of withdrawal liability generally may be challenged only in arbitration, and erisa requires that quarterly payments must continue to be made during the pendency of the arbitration. if the employer prevails in 26 table of contents arbitration (and any subsequent appeals), its quarterly withdrawal liability payments are refunded with interest. the fund's total withdrawal liability assessment against simplexgrinnell is approximately $25 million. the quarterly withdrawal liability payments are $1.1 million, $14.3 million of which has been cumulatively paid through september 24, 2010. while the ultimate outcome is uncertain, simplexgrinnell believes that it has strong arguments that no withdrawal liability is owed to the fund, and it plans to vigorously defend against the fund's withdrawal liability assessment. the matter is currently in arbitration. the company has made no provision for this contingency and believes that its quarterly payments are recoverable. broadview security contingency on may 14, 2010, the company acquired broadview security, which is a business that was formerly owned by the brink's company. under the coal industry retiree health benefit act of 1992, as amended (the "coal act"), the brink's company and its majority-owned subsidiaries at july 20, 1992 (including certain legal entities acquired in the broadview security acquisition) are jointly and severally liable with certain of the brink's company's other current and former subsidiaries for health care coverage obligations provided for by the coal act. a voluntary employees' beneficiary associate ("veba") trust has been established by the brink's company to pay for these liabilities, although the trust may have insufficient funds to satisfy all future obligations. at the time of its spin-off from the brink's company, broadview security entered into an agreement in which the brink's company agreed to indemnify broadview security for any and all liabilities and expenses related to the brink's company's former coal operations, including any health care coverage obligations. the brink's company has agreed that this indemnification survives the company's acquisition of broadview security. the company has evaluated its potential liability under the coal act as a contingency in light of all known facts, including the funding of the veba, and indemnification provided by the brinks company. the company has concluded that no accrual is necessary due to the existence of the indemnification and its belief that the brink's company and the veba will be able to satisfy all future obligations under the coal act. other matters as previously reported, in 2002, the sec's division of enforcement conducted an investigation related to past accounting practices for dealer connect fees that adt had charged to its authorized dealers upon purchasing customer accounts. the investigation related to accounting practices employed by the company's former management, which were discontinued in 2003. although the company settled with the sec in 2006, a number of former dealers and related parties have filed lawsuits against the company, including a class action lawsuit filed in the district court of arapahoe county, colorado, alleging breach of contract and other claims related to adt's decision to terminate certain authorized dealers in 2002 and 2003. in february 2010, the court granted a directed verdict in adt's favor dismissing a number of the plaintiffs' key claims. the plaintiffs have appealed this verdict. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of these lawsuits, the company does not believe these claims will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in addition to the foregoing, the company is subject to claims and suits, including from time to time, contractual disputes and product and general liability claims, incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. with respect to many of these claims, the company either self-insures or maintains insurance through third-parties, with varying deductibles. while the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the company believes that the resolution of any such proceedings, whether the underlying claims are covered by insurance or not, will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows beyond amounts recorded for such matters. 27 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the number of registered holders of tyco's common shares as of november 5, 2010 was 26,561. tyco common shares are listed and traded on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbol "tyc." the following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of tyco common shares as reported by the nyse, and the dividends declared on tyco common shares, for the quarterly periods presented below. effective march 17, 2009, tyco changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from bermuda to the canton of schaffhausen, switzerland. in connection with the change of domicile, the par value of tyco's common shares increased from $0.80 per share to 8.53 swiss francs (chf) per share (or $7.21 based on the exchange rate in effect on march 17, 2009). the change of domicile was approved at a special general meeting of shareholders held on march 12, 2009. the following steps occurred in connection with the change of domicile, which did not result in a change to total shareholders' equity: (1) approximately 21 million shares held directly or indirectly in treasury were cancelled; (2) the par value of common shares was increased from $0.80 to chf 8.53 through an approximate 1-for-9 reverse share split, followed by the issuance of approximately eight fully paid up shares so that the same number of shares were outstanding before and after the change of domicile, which reduced share premium and increased common shares; and (3) the remaining amount of share premium was eliminated with a corresponding increase to contributed surplus. year ended september 24, 2010 year ended september 25, 2009 market price range market price range dividends declared per common share (1) dividends declared per common share (1) quarter high low high low first $ 37.08 $ 33.32 $ 0.22 $ 35.02 $ 15.65 $ 0.20 second 38.19 33.95 0.19 24.57 17.43 0.21 third 40.54 35.00 0.21 28.86 18.88 0.21 fourth 39.79 34.43 0.24 34.87 25.55 0.23 $ 0.86 $ 0.85 (1) the dividends declared in 2010 and the second through fourth quarters of 2009 are the u.s. dollar equivalent of swiss francs converted at the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the payment dates. as a swiss company, dividends paid by tyco are subject to shareholder approval. shareholders approved annual dividends of chf 0.93 and chf 0.90 at the shareholder meetings held on march 12, 2009 and march 11, 2010, respectively. at the time of approval, the equivalent u.s. dollar amount of these dividends were $0.80 and $0.84, respectively. dividend policy pursuant to swiss law, dividend payments made prior to january 1, 2011 are subject to swiss withholding taxes unless made in the form of a return of capital from our registered share capital. as a result, we have paid dividends in the form of a reduction of registered share capital, denominated in swiss francs since march 2009. notwithstanding the swiss denomination of annual dividends we have made payments of dividends in u.s. dollars based on exchange rates in effect shortly before the payment date. fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to the swiss franc between the date the dividend is declared and paid increase or decrease the u.s. dollar amount required to be paid. we have managed the variability in cash flows associated with the dividend payments by entering into derivative financial instruments used as economic hedges of the underlying risk. our last dividend 28 table of contents expected to be paid out of registered share capital is scheduled to be paid in february 2011. after this payment, we expect to make dividend payments in the form of a reduction in contributed surplus, which are also expected to be made free of swiss withholding taxes, but can be denominated and paid in u.s. dollars, removing the exposure to currency fluctuations for recipients of the dividend. we expect to obtain shareholder approval of the annual dividend amount out of contributed surplus each year at our annual general meeting, and we expect to distribute the approved dividend amount in four quarterly installments, the timing of which will be determined by our board of directors. the timing, declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common shares will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, the capital requirements of our businesses, industry practice and any other relevant factors. future dividends will be proposed by our board of directors and, as stated above, require shareholder approval. 29 table of contents performance graph set forth below is a graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on tyco's common shares against the cumulative return on the s&amp;p 500 index and the s&amp;p 500 industrials index, assuming investment of $100 on september 30, 2005, including the reinvestment of dividends. the graph shows the cumulative total return as of the fiscal years ended september 29, 2006, september 28, 2007, september 26, 2008, september 25, 2009 and september 24, 2010. total return to shareholders (includes reinvestment of dividends) annual return percentage years ended company/index 9/06 9/07 9/08 9/09 9/10 tyco international ltd. 1.59 2.61 (17.97 ) (3.58 ) 16.16 s&amp;p 500 index 10.79 16.44 (18.85 ) (11.56 ) 12.23 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 8.34 20.96 (15.16 ) (8.00 ) 13.83 9/05 9/06 9/07 9/08 9/09 9/10 tyco international ltd. $ 100 $ 101.59 $ 104.25 $ 85.51 $ 82.45 $ 95.77 s&amp;p 500 index 100 110.79 129.00 104.68 92.58 103.90 s&amp;p 500 industrials index 100 108.34 131.05 111.19 102.29 116.43 30 table of contents equity compensation plan information the following table provides information as of september 24, 2010 with respect to tyco's common shares issuable under its equity compensation plans: equity compensation plan plan category number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options (a) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options (b) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) equity compensation plans approved by security holders: 2004 stock and incentive plan (1) 25,330,612 $ 42.10 22,001,897 ltip plan (2) 3,732,606 32.70 espp (3) 2,919,845 29,063,218 24,921,742 equity compensation plans not approved by security holders: ltip ii plan (4) 3,330,741 $ 54.73 saye (5) 243,904 36.16 broadview security plans (6) 479,011 26.28 263,540 4,053,656 263,540 total 33,116,874 25,185,282 (1) the tyco international ltd. 2004 stock and incentive plan ("plan") provides for the award of stock options, restricted shares and other equity and equity-based awards to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amount shown under number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options includes 205,044 deferred stock unit ("dsu") grants and dividend equivalents earned on each dsu account, 19,725,390 shares to be issued upon exercise of options, 3,671,026 restricted stock units and 1,729,152 performance share units representing target payout. there are currently no restricted share awards outstanding under this plan. amount shown under shares available reflects the aggregate shares available under tyco international ltd. long term incentive plan ("ltip"), ltip ii and the 2004 stock and incentive plan. shares available under ltip and ltip ii in march 2004 were rolled into the 2004 stock and incentive plan as of the inception of the plan. (2) the ltip allows for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amount shown under number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options includes 2,864,247 shares to be issued upon exercise of options, including 20,137 assumed in connection with acquisitions with a weighted-average exercise price of $61.09 and 868,359 dsu grants and dividend equivalents earned on each dsu account. no additional options may be granted under those assumed plans. effective as of inception of the 2004 stock and incentive plan, no additional grants may be made under the ltip or the ltip ii. (3) shares available for future issuance under the tyco employee stock purchase plan ("espp"), which represents the number of remaining shares registered for issuance under this plan. all of the shares delivered to participants under the espp were purchased in the open market. the espp was suspended indefinitely during the fourth quarter of 2009. (4) under the terms of the 2004 stock and incentive plan adopted in march 2004, no additional options, equity or equity-based grants will be made to board members, officers and non-officer employees under the ltip or the ltip ii. ltip ii allowed for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to employees who are not officers of tyco. under this plan, non-officer employees or former employees of tyco or a subsidiary could receive: (i) options to purchase tyco common shares; (ii) stock appreciation rights; (iii) awards payable in cash, common shares, other securities or other property, based on the achievement of performance goals; (iv) dividend equivalents, consisting of a right to receive payments equivalent to dividends declared on tyco common shares; and (v) other stock-based awards as determined by the compensation and human resources committee ("committee"). the exercise price of options and stock appreciation rights would generally be fair market value on the date of grant, but could be lower in certain circumstances. no individual could receive awards for more than 12,000,000 shares (or 3,000,000 shares on a post-reverse stock split basis) in any 31 table of contents calendar year. terms and conditions of awards were determined by the committee. awards could be deferred, and could be payable in any form the committee determined, including cash, tyco common shares, other securities or other property. the committee may modify awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events, including a change of control. the shares granted under the ltip ii will be issued at vesting under the 2004 stock and incentive plan. (5) the tyco international ltd. united kingdom ("uk") savings related share option plan ("saye") is a uk inland revenue approved plan for uk employees pursuant to which employees were granted options to purchase shares at the end of three years of service at a 15% discount off of the market price at time of grant. employees made monthly contributions that were, at the election of the employee, used for the purchase price of shares or the contribution could have been returned to the employee. the total amount of shares that may have been purchased at the end of the three years of service was equal to the total of the monthly contributions, plus a tax-free bonus amount equal to a multiple of the aggregate amount of monthly contributions, divided by the option price. an option will generally be exercisable only during the period of six months following the three-year period. the plan was administered by the company's international benefits oversight committee, appointed by the committee. the international benefits oversight committee, among other things, determined when to grant options and set the option price. the saye plan was approved on november 3, 1999 for a ten year period and has expired according to its terms on november 3, 2009. the international benefits oversight committee has not approved any additional grants since the last annual grant on october 9, 2008 and it has not applied for approval of a replacement for the saye plan at this time. (6) in connection with the acquisition of broadview security in may 2010, options outstanding under the brink's home security holdings, inc. 2008 equity incentive plan ("2008 equity plan") and the brink's home security holdings, inc. non-employee director's equity plan were converted into options to purchase tyco common shares. shares available represent the number of shares available for issuance under future awards from the 2008 equity plan, which are now available for future issuance under tyco's 2004 stock and incentive plan. issuer purchases of equity securities period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under publicly announced plans or programs 6/26/10 7/23/10 7,435,500 $ 36.23 7,435,500 7/24/10 8/27/10 6,321,123 $ 37.47 6,321,123 8/28/10 9/24/10 3,057,000 $ 38.27 3,057,000 $ 1,000,415,000 the transactions described in the table above represent the repurchase of common shares on the nyse as part of the $1.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in july 2008 ("2008 share repurchase program"). the average price paid per share is calculated by dividing the total cash paid for the shares by the total number of shares repurchased. the company has substantially completed the 2008 share repurchase program. on september 8, 2010, the board of directors approved a new $1 billion share repurchase program ("2010 share repurchase program"). less than $1 million and $1 billion remained outstanding under the 2008 and 2010 share repurchase programs, respectively, as of september 24, 2010. 32 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of tyco. this data is derived from tyco's consolidated financial statements for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008, september 28, 2007 and september 29, 2006, respectively. tyco has a 52 or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the last friday in september. fiscal years 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were all 52-week years. fiscal 2011 will be a 53-week year which will end on september 30, 2011. during the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we entered into an agreement to sell our european water business. the business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and therefore has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented below. in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we completed the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics, formerly our healthcare and electronics businesses, respectively. these businesses are classified as discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 and 2006. net income (loss) attributable to tyco common shareholders for 2007 and 2006 includes income (loss) from discontinued operations of $814 million and $2.8 billion, respectively, primarily related to the healthcare and electronics businesses. this selected financial data should be read in conjunction with tyco's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of this annual report titled item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 2010 2009 (1) 2008 2007 (2) 2006 consolidated statements of operations data: net revenue $ 17,016 $ 16,882 $ 19,733 $ 18,055 $ 16,699 income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to tyco common shareholders 1,125 (1,845 ) 1,062 (2,556 ) 775 net income (loss) attributable to tyco common shareholders 1,132 (1,798 ) 1,553 (1,742 ) 3,590 basic earnings per share attributable to tyco common shareholders: income (loss) from continuing operations 2.32 (3.90 ) 2.19 (5.16 ) 1.54 net income (loss) 2.33 (3.80 ) 3.21 (3.52 ) 7.14 diluted earnings per share attributable to tyco common shareholders: income (loss) from continuing operations 2.31 (3.90 ) 2.18 (5.16 ) 1.51 net income (loss) 2.32 (3.80 ) 3.19 (3.52 ) 6.95 cash dividends per share 0.86 0.84 0.65 1.60 1.60 consolidated balance sheet data (end of year): total assets $ 27,128 $ 25,553 $ 28,804 $ 32,815 $ 63,011 long-term debt 3,652 4,029 3,709 4,080 8,856 total tyco shareholders' equity 14,084 12,941 15,494 15,624 35,387 (1) loss from continuing operations attributable to tyco common shareholders for the year ended september 25, 2009 includes goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $2.7 billion, which was recorded during the quarter ended march 27, 2009. (2) loss from continuing operations attributable to tyco common shareholders for the year ended september 28, 2007 includes a class action settlement charge, net of $2.9 billion. 33 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations the following discussion and analysis of the company's financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the selected financial data and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. the company does not believe that its historical operating results will be indicative of future operating results. this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. the company's actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the headings "risk factors" and "forward-looking information." introduction the consolidated financial statements include the consolidated results of tyco international ltd., a company organized under the laws of switzerland, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as "we," the "company" or "tyco"). the financial statements have been prepared in united states dollars ("usd"), in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). the company operates in the following business segments: adt worldwide designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security systems for residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. in addition, adt worldwide manufactures certain products related to retailer anti-theft systems. flow control designs, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes, fittings, valve automation and heat tracing products for general process, energy and mining markets as well as the water and wastewater markets. fire protection services designs, sells, installs and services fire detection and fire suppression systems for commercial, industrial and governmental customers. electrical and metal products designs, manufactures and sells galvanized steel tubing, armored wire and cable and other metal products for non-residential construction, electrical, fire and safety and mechanical customers. safety products designs, manufactures and sells fire suppression, electronic security and life safety products, including fire sprinklers, breathing apparatus, intrusion, security, access control and video management systems. in addition, safety products manufactures products installed and serviced by adt worldwide and fire protection services. we also provide general corporate services to our segments and these costs are reported as corporate and other. references to the segment data are to the company's continuing operations. certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. the company has reclassified certain businesses which have satisfied the criteria to be presented as discontinued operations to income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations and assets and liabilities held for sale within the consolidated balance sheets. see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, the company has realigned certain business operations during the first quarter of fiscal 2010 resulting in prior period segment amounts being recast. see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. on may 14, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of brink's home security holdings, inc. ("bhs" or "broadview security") in a cash-and-stock transaction valued at approximately 34 table of contents $2.0 billion, with $585 million in cash being used to fund the acquisition. broadview security is being integrated into the company's adt worldwide segment. broadview security's core business is to provide security alarm monitoring services for residential and commercial properties in north america. it has a large residential recurring customer base, which has enhanced adt's presence in the north american residential security business. broadview security is also a leader in technologies and services which are expected to enhance adt worldwide's service offerings to its customers. in connection with the integration of broadview security into the adt worldwide segment, the broadview security brand has been discontinued, and we expect to realize cost savings and other synergies through operational efficiencies including consolidation of both marketing and general and administrative functions. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we initiated a program to fully integrate broadview security into our adt worldwide segment. we anticipate that broadview security will be fully integrated into our adt worldwide segment's north america business during the first half of 2011. as a result, broadview security's operating results, including its revenue and income from continuing operations, will be reflected in the operating results of our adt north america business and will no longer be reported separately. due to the integration of operations, we have estimated that broadview security contributed approximately $193 million to our consolidated net revenue and a loss from continuing operations of $25 million during 2010. we incurred approximately $17 million of costs directly related to the acquisition and $18 million of integration costs for a total of $35 million during 2010. of this amount, $32 million has been recorded in our adt worldwide segment and $3 million in corporate and other. both acquisition and integration costs have been recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statement of operations during 2010. in addition, our adt worldwide segment recorded $14 million of restructuring expenses related to combining the broadview security and adt worldwide businesses, which have been recorded within restructuring, asset impairments and divestiture charges, net in our consolidated statement of operations during 2010. also, during the third quarter of 2010, we announced our intention to pursue a tax-free spin-off of our electrical and metal products business. on november 9, 2010, we announced an agreement to sell a 51% interest in our electrical and metal products business. in connection with this announcement, we no longer plan to pursue the tax-free spin-off of our electrical and metal products business as proposed on april 27, 2010. see note 25 to the consolidated financial statements. overview net revenue for 2010 increased $134 million, or 0.8%, as compared to 2009. the increase was primarily driven by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $624 million, or 3.7%. this increase was partially offset by net revenue declines experienced in our flow control and fire protection services segments. flow control's decline in net revenue was primarily the result of reduced volume in its valves business driven by decreased demand in our end markets. weakness in the commercial end market resulted in a decline in product and systems installation revenue within our fire protection services segment. service revenue continued to grow as a percentage of our overall revenue to 41% for 2010 as compared to 40% and 36% for 2009 and 2008, respectively. our service revenues are principally derived from our adt worldwide and fire protection services businesses, and represent a predictable and consistent source of revenue. recurring revenue in our adt worldwide business represents approximately 58% of adt's total revenue compared to approximately 54% in 2009 and 51% in 2008. recurring revenue represents revenue associated with monitoring and maintenance services under contractual arrangements. in the fire protection services business, service revenue continued to increase as a percentage of fire protection's total revenue to 52% in 2010, as compared to 49% and 48% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. net revenue was also favorably impacted by approximately 35 table of contents $69 million, or 0.4%, for net acquisitions and divestitures, which primarily related to the acquisition of broadview security partially offset by the sale of our french security business. operating income during 2010 was $1.6 billion, compared to an operating loss of $1.5 billion during 2009. operating income in 2009 was negatively affected by goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of approximately $2.7 billion and legacy legal settlement charges of approximately $125 million during 2009. operating income in 2010 was favorably impacted by efficiencies gained from cost containment actions taken in fiscal 2010 and 2009 and restructuring actions taken in prior years. restructuring and asset impairment charges decreased to $145 million during 2010 from $232 million during 2009. operating income during 2010 was favorably impacted by net gains on divestitures of $40 million as compared to a loss on divestitures of $15 million during 2009. we also incurred acquisition and integration charges of $35 million during 2010 related to our acquisition of broadview security. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted operating income by $80 million during 2010. as of september 24, 2010, our cash balance was $1.8 billion, as compared to $2.4 billion as of september 25, 2009. we generated approximately $2.6 billion of cash from operating activities, which was more than offset by: $600 million of cash used for acquisitions net of cash acquired, primarily related to our acquisition of broadview security; accounts purchased by adt and capital expenditures of $1.3 billion; approximately $900 million to repurchase our common shares; dividends paid of $416 million; and a net debt repayment of $204 million. we expect to continue to use our cash to fund internal growth opportunities, improve productivity across all of our businesses, make acquisitions that strategically fit within our adt worldwide, fire protection services and flow control businesses and return capital to shareholders. on september 8, 2010, our board of directors approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program ("2010 repurchase program") as the remaining capacity under our existing $1.0 billion share repurchase program was substantially utilized by the end of august 2010. we did not repurchase any shares under the new program during 2010. in 2010, we also continued our portfolio refinement efforts by exiting areas that have not provided, and are not expected to provide, an adequate return on investment and by taking advantage of restructuring opportunities that are expected to provide future cost savings. during 2010, we incurred approximately $145 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges, substantially completing our 2009 restructuring program. during fiscal 2010, we identified additional opportunities for cost savings through restructuring activities in fiscal 2011. we expect to incur restructuring and restructuring related charges of approximately $150 million in fiscal 2011. over the last few years, we have explored alternatives for under-performing or non-strategic businesses, including divestiture. we sold our french security business, which was part of our adt worldwide segment, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $53 million during 2010. the gain and results of operations of the french security business are presented in continuing operations as the criteria for discontinued operations have not been met. as discussed above, during the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we announced our intention to sell a 51% interest in our electrical and metal products business. see notes 25 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, during the third quarter of fiscal 2010, our board of directors approved a plan to sell our european water business, which is part of our flow control segment. the business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and has been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. on september 30, 2010, we received the necessary consents and approval to complete the sale of this business and received net cash proceeds of approximately $267 million. we expect to recognize a gain on the transaction. 36 table of contents operating results net revenue, operating income (loss) and net income (loss) for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 were as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 revenue from product sales $ 9,990 $ 10,134 $ 12,602 service revenue 7,026 6,748 7,131 net revenue $ 17,016 $ 16,882 $ 19,733 operating income (loss) $ 1,598 $ (1,506 ) $ 1,896 interest income 31 44 112 interest expense (284 ) (301 ) (396 ) other expense, net (75 ) (7 ) (223 ) income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 1,270 (1,770 ) 1,389 income tax expense (138 ) (71 ) (326 ) income (loss) from continuing operations 1,132 (1,841 ) 1,063 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 7 47 491 net income (loss) $ 1,139 $ (1,794 ) $ 1,554 less: noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries net income 7 4 1 net income (loss) attributable to tyco common shareholders $ 1,132 $ (1,798 ) $ 1,553 segment results the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each of our segments included in continuing operations. adt worldwide net revenue, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, operating income (loss) and operating margin for adt worldwide for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 were as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 revenue from product sales $ 2,388 $ 2,270 $ 2,728 (1) service revenue 4,988 4,796 5,074 (1) net revenue $ 7,376 $ 7,066 $ 7,802 goodwill and intangible asset impairments $ $ 1,023 $ 1 operating income (loss) 1,056 (202 ) 866 operating margin 14.3 % (2) 11.1 % (1) as discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, revenue related to the sale of electronic tags and labels has been classified as revenue from product sales during fiscal 2010. during fiscal 2009 and 2008, the sale of the electronic tags and labels was misclassified as service revenue. the service revenue and revenue from product sales during fiscal 2009 and 2008 have not been changed for this misclassification, as the effect is not material. the impact of the misclassification for fiscal 2009 would have been to decrease service revenue by $286 million, with corresponding increases to revenue from product sales. the impact of the misclassification for fiscal 2008 would have been to decrease service revenue by $364 million, with corresponding increases to revenue from product sales. (2) certain operating margins and percentages have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. 37 table of contents revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of electronic security and other life safety systems as well as products related to retailer anti-theft systems. service revenue is comprised of electronic security services and maintenance, including the monitoring of burglar alarms, fire alarms and other life safety systems as well as other security services. net revenue for adt worldwide increased $310 million, or 4.4%, during 2010, as compared to 2009. net revenue was favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $218 million, or 3.1%. net revenue was also favorably impacted by the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $72 million, or 1.0%, which was primarily the result of $193 million in net revenue estimated to be contributed by the broadview security acquisition partially offset by $109 million of divested revenue relating to our french security business. approximately 58% and 54% of adt worldwide's total net revenue during 2010 and 2009, respectively, represents revenue associated with monitoring and maintenance services under contractual arrangements, which is considered recurring revenue. recurring revenue increased by $435 million, or 11.3%, to approximately $4.3 billion as a result of growth in customer accounts of approximately 1.5 million, or 20.5%, to a total of approximately 8.9 million accounts as of september 24, 2010. approximately 1.4 million customer accounts were acquired on may 14, 2010 in connection with the broadview security acquisition and approximately 501,000 customer accounts were acquired through the adt dealer program during 2010. the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted recurring revenue by $148 million in 2010, or 3.8%, and $116 million, or 3.0%, respectively. systems installation, product sales and other service revenue declined by $125 million, or 3.9%, to approximately $3.1 billion due to lower sales volume primarily as the result of continued weakness in the commercial end market, which has declined at a slower rate than the same period in the prior year. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted systems installation, product sales and other service revenue by $102 million, or 3.2%, while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures resulted in an unfavorable impact of $76 million, or 2.4%. net revenue by geographic area for adt worldwide for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 was as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 north america $ 4,436 $ 4,185 $ 4,231 europe, middle east and africa ("emea") 1,733 1,870 2,398 rest of world 1,207 1,011 1,173 $ 7,376 $ 7,066 $ 7,802 geographically, north america net revenue increased $251 million, or 6.0%, during 2010 primarily as the result of the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, which favorably impacted net revenue by an estimated $193 million, or 4.6%, as the result of the acquisition of broadview security. partially offsetting this increase was a decline in systems installation and product sales as the result of continued weakness in the commercial market, although the rate of decline was slower than the same period in the prior year. changes in foreign currency exchange rates also favorably impacted net revenue by $48 million, or 1.1%. net revenue in emea decreased $137 million, or 7.3%, as favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $60 million, or 3.2%, were more than offset by a decline in systems installation and other service revenue as a result of continued weakness in the commercial end market, although the rate of decline was slower than the same period in the prior year. additionally, emea net revenue was unfavorably impacted by $121 million, or 6.5%, due to the impact of divestitures. net revenue increased $196 million, or 19.4%, in the rest of world geographies primarily due to recurring revenue growth in both latin american and asia pacific regions as adt worldwide continues to focus on building its customer account and recurring revenue base in these markets. the asia-pacific region experienced an increase in system installation, products sales and other service revenue which was 38 table of contents partially offset by a decrease in the latin american region due to the continued slowdown in commercial and retailer end markets. net revenue in the rest of world geographies was also favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $110 million, or 10.9%. attrition rates decreased during 2010 as compared to 2009 as shown in the following table: for the fiscal year ended september 24, 2010 september 25, 2009 september 26, 2008 attrition 12.8 % 13.3% (1) 12.9% (1) (1) attrition rates for the years ended september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 have been recast to reflect the divestiture of our french security business, which resulted in reductions of 0.1% in the amounts previously reported for september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008, respectively. operating income increased by approximately $1.3 billion during 2010 as compared to 2009. operating income for 2009 was negatively affected by goodwill impairment charges of $959 million recorded at our adt emea and sensormatic retail solutions reporting units and intangible asset impairment charges of $64 million. operating income in 2010 was positively impacted by the shift to higher margin recurring revenue. additionally, 2010 operating income was favorably impacted by the net impact of savings realized through previous restructuring actions, savings realized through cost containment actions, and a curtailment gain of $12 million recognized when certain defined benefit pension plans were frozen in the united kingdom. these increases were partially offset by an increase in the amortization of intangible assets primarily relating to the broadview security acquisition. during 2010, $60 million of net restructuring charges were incurred, of which $14 million related to restructuring actions associated with the acquisition of broadview security, as compared to $103 million of restructuring charges, net during 2009. fiscal year 2010 also included a $45 million gain on divestitures, net primarily related to the sale of our french security business, and $32 million of acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition of broadview security, as compared to a $6 loss and nil of divestiture and acquisition costs, respectively, during 2009. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted operating income by $30 million. net revenue for adt worldwide decreased $736 million, or 9.4%, during 2009 as compared to 2008. this decrease was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $614 million. revenue was positively affected by $152 million for the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures. revenue from product sales decreased 16.8% and service revenue decreased 5.5%. recurring revenue declined 3.5% during 2009 primarily as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which unfavorably impacted recurring revenue by 7.5%, but was offset by growth in north america and asia. product sales and installation and other service revenue declined 15.6% partially due to a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which unfavorably impacted system installation and service revenue by 8.3%, and lower sales volume due to weakness in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market. geographically, revenue in north america decreased $46 million, or 1.1%, resulting from reduced spending primarily in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market. revenue in emea decreased $528 million, or 22.0%, largely as a result of foreign currency exchange rates, which had an unfavorable impact of $328 million. the remaining decrease in emea was primarily a result of a decline in product sales, systems installation and service revenue due to a slowdown in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market. revenue declined $162 million, or 13.8%, in the rest of world geographies, which was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $223 million partially offset by growth in asia and latin america. operating income in 2009 decreased $1.1 billion as compared to 2008. based on the deterioration in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market discussed above, the company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $959 million related to its adt emea reporting unit and intangible 39 table of contents asset impairment charges of $64 million related to certain franchise rights within north america during the second quarter of 2009. the decrease is also related to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $45 million. the decrease was further driven by the decline in sales volume as well as an increase in bad debt charges, both as a result of the weakness experienced in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market, and adverse global economic conditions. operating income was negatively impacted by restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $109 million in 2009. operating income in 2008 included restructuring charges of $119 million and expenses of $51 million primarily to convert customers from analog to digital signal transmission in north america. there were no charges related to converting customers to digital signal during 2009. the decline in operating income was partially offset by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions. flow control net revenue, operating income and operating margin for flow control for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 were as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 revenue from product sales $ 3,089 $ 3,232 $ 3,740 service revenue 284 263 212 net revenue $ 3,373 $ 3,495 $ 3,952 operating income $ 410 $ 496 $ 574 operating margin 12.2 % 14.2 % 14.5 % net revenue for flow control decreased $122 million, or 3.5%, during 2010 as compared to 2009. the decrease in net revenue was primarily driven by reduced volume in the valves business driven by decreased demand in our end markets. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted net revenue by $218 million, or 6.2%, as well as the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures by $10 million, or 0.3%. the decrease in operating income of $86 million, or 17.3%, during 2010 as compared to 2009, was primarily due to decreased volume in our valves business and an expected loss related to completion of a long-term construction project of approximately $18 million. these declines were partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $31 million, or 6.3%. the decline in operating income was also partially offset by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions. operating income was negatively impacted by $24 million of restructuring and divestiture charges, net during both 2010 and 2009. additionally, management estimated that $5 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009. net revenue for flow control decreased $457 million, or 11.6%, during 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease in net revenue was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $418 million, or 10.6%. revenue also decreased due to reduced volume in the water business and reduced project activity in the energy end market of the thermal controls business. the decrease in revenue was partially offset by an increase in the valves business primarily from the energy end market in emea. the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures unfavorably impacted net revenue by $3 million in 2009 and favorably impacted net revenue by $16 million in 2008. operating income decreased $78 million, or 13.6%, during 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease in operating income was primarily due to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $71 million as well as decreased volume in the water businesses discussed above offset by margin improvements in the valves business. margins were also negatively impacted by restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $24 million. additionally, management 40 table of contents estimates that $5 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009. restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges were $6 million in 2008. additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses during 2008 included an environmental remediation charge of $6 million related to the closure of a facility in north america. the decline in operating income was partially offset by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions. fire protection services net revenue, goodwill impairment, operating income and operating margin for fire protection services for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 were as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 revenue from product sales $ 1,615 $ 1,734 $ 1,989 service revenue 1,740 1,676 1,824 net revenue $ 3,355 $ 3,410 $ 3,813 goodwill impairment $ $ 180 $ 9 operating income 272 70 333 operating margin 8.1 % (1) 8.7 % (1) certain operating margins and percentage changes have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of fire protection and other systems. service revenue consists of inspection, maintenance, service and monitoring of fire detection and suppression systems. net revenue by geographic area for fire protection services was as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 north america $ 1,940 $ 1,994 $ 2,111 international 1,415 1,416 1,702 net revenue $ 3,355 $ 3,410 $ 3,813 net revenue for fire protection services decreased $55 million, or 1.6%, during 2010 compared to 2009. this decrease was primarily due to continued weakness in commercial markets and a shift from lower margin projects to higher projects, which more than offset the favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $118 million, or 3.5%. geographically, net revenue in north america decreased $54 million, or 2.7%, primarily due to the continued decline in systems installation and upgrade activity in the sprinkler business. reduced systems installation and upgrade activity in the electronic business as well as service revenue in the sprinkler and suppression businesses also contributed to the decrease, although to a much lesser extent. these declines were partially offset by an increase in service revenue in the electronic business. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted revenue in north america by $28 million, or 1.4%. although net revenue in our international fire businesses decreased by $1 million, changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted net revenue by $90 million, or 6.4%, which was almost entirely offset by a decrease in revenue due to continued weakness in the european commercial markets. the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures unfavorably impacted revenue by $6 million, or 0.2%. operating income increased $202 million during 2010 as compared to 2009. operating income during 2009 was negatively affected by a goodwill impairment charge of $180 million recorded at the emea fire reporting unit. additionally, operating income in 2010 was favorably impacted by savings 41 table of contents realized through cost containment actions, and to a lesser extent, a curtailment gain of approximately $7 million recognized when certain defined benefit pension plans were frozen in the united kingdom. during 2010, $34 million of restructuring and divestiture charges, net were incurred as compared to $45 million of restructuring charges during 2009. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted operating income by $11 million. the net increase in operating income was partially offset by the decreased sales volume discussed above. net revenue for fire protection services decreased $403 million, or 10.6%, during 2009 as compared to 2008. this decrease was primarily due to the impact of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $293 million, or 7.7%. additionally, revenue declined due to the weakness in the commercial market and adverse global economic conditions. geographically, revenue in our international fire businesses decreased by $286 million, or 16.8%, largely due to the impact of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates discussed above as well as weakness in the european commercial markets. additionally, revenue in our north america simplexgrinnell business decreased by $117 million, 5.5%, primarily due to a decline in systems installation and upgrade activity in the sprinkler business. operating income decreased $263 million during 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease was primarily due to a $180 million goodwill impairment in emea recorded during 2009 compared to a $9 million goodwill impairment in latin america recorded during 2008. the decrease was further driven by the decline in sales volume discussed above as well as an increase in bad debt charges, both as a result of the weakness experienced in the commercial markets and adverse global economic conditions. there were restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges of $45 million in 2009 as compared to $26 million in 2008. additionally, operating income decreased due to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $10 million. the decline in operating income was partially offset by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions. electrical and metal products net revenue, goodwill impairment, operating income (loss) and operating margin for electrical and metal products for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 were as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 revenue from product sales $ 1,394 $ 1,389 2,266 service revenue 5 3 6 net revenue $ 1,399 $ 1,392 2,272 goodwill impairment $ $ 935 $ operating income (loss) 100 (938 ) 342 operating margin 7.1 % (1) 15.1 % (1) certain operating margins and percentage changes have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. net revenue for electrical and metal products increased $7 million, or 0.5%, during 2010 compared to 2009. the increase in revenue was primarily due to favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $37 million, or 2.7%, and $24 million, or 1.7%; due to the favorable net impact of acquisitions and divestitures. these increases were partially offset by a decline in volume of armored cable products and, to a lesser extent, steel products. higher selling prices for armored cable products were almost entirely offset by lower selling prices for steel products. operating income increased approximately $1.0 billion during 2010 as compared to 2009. operating income for 2009 was negatively affected by goodwill impairment charges of $935 million 42 table of contents recorded at the electrical and metal products reporting unit. also contributing to the increase in operating income were higher spreads for steel products resulting from lower raw material costs which more than offset lower selling prices. these increases in operating income were partially offset by lower volumes as well as higher raw material costs which more than offset higher selling prices for armor cable products. during 2010, $13 million of restructuring charges were incurred compared to $21 million of restructuring and divestiture charges during 2009. additionally, $1 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009 as compared to no additional charges during 2010. net revenue for electrical and metal products decreased $880 million, or 38.7%, in 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease in revenue was primarily due to lower volume and selling prices of steel products largely resulting from a decline in the commercial market in north america. lower volume and selling prices for armored cable products also contributed to the decline. changes in foreign currency exchange rates had an unfavorable impact of $52 million, or 2.3%. the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures negatively affected revenue by approximately $31 million, or 1.4%. operating income decreased $1.3 billion in 2009 as compared to 2008. based on the sales volume decrease as well as the significant decline in the price of steel, the company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $935 million during the second quarter of 2009. there was no goodwill impairment recorded during 2008. the decrease in operating income also related to volume declines as well as lower spreads for steel products. spreads for steel products continued to decline as a direct result of higher raw material costs and lower selling prices. lower restructuring and divestiture charges incurred in 2009 as compared to similar charges incurred in 2008 partially offset the decline in operating income discussed above. results for 2009 included restructuring and divestiture charges of $21 million as compared to $42 million for 2008. additionally, management estimates that $1 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009. safety products net revenue, goodwill impairments, operating income (loss) and operating margin for safety products for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 were as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 revenue from product sales $ 1,504 $ 1,510 $ 1,880 service revenue 9 9 9 net revenue $ 1,513 $ 1,519 $ 1,889 goodwill impairments $ $ 567 $ operating income (loss) $ 221 $ (367 ) $ 301 operating margin 14.6 % (1) 15.9 % (1) certain operating margins and percentage changes have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. net revenue for safety products decreased $6 million, or 0.4%, during 2010 as compared to 2009. the decrease in net revenue is primarily due to lower volume in our fire suppression business partially offset by higher volume experienced in our electronic security and life safety businesses. the decrease in our fire suppression business was primarily due to reduced spending in the commercial construction market. the increase in our electronic security and life safety businesses was due to higher volume primarily related to the introduction of several new products. net revenue was favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $33 million, or 2.2%, which was almost entirely offset by the unfavorable impact of divestitures of $31 million, or 2.0%. 43 table of contents operating income increased $588 million during 2010 compared to 2009. operating income during 2009 was negatively affected by goodwill impairment charges of $567 million recorded at the access controls and video systems ("acvs") and life safety reporting units. the increase in operating income is attributable to the increased sales volume in the electronic security and life safety businesses and a shift in product mix to higher margin products across all businesses, which was partially offset by the fire suppression sales volume decline discussed above and increased sales and marketing expense. restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net was $12 million during 2010 as compared to $32 million of restructuring charges during 2009. additionally, management estimated that $7 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009 as compared to no additional charges during 2010. savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions also contributed to the increase in operating income. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted operating income by $6 million. net revenue for safety products decreased $370 million, or 19.6%, during 2009 as compared to 2008. the decrease was primarily related to reduced volume in our fire suppression business, life safety and electronic security businesses, which were impacted by soft economic conditions. the remaining decrease was related to the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $114 million, 6.0%. the decrease in our fire suppression business was primarily due to reduced spending in the commercial construction market. the decrease in the life safety business was primarily due to reduced municipal spending. the electronic security business decrease was primarily due to the slow down in the retail sector, as retail capital projects and new store openings were canceled or delayed. operating income decreased $668 million in 2009 as compared to 2008. the decline was primarily attributable to goodwill and intangible impairment charges of $567 million recorded during the quarter ended march 27, 2009 as a result of the slowdown in the commercial and retail markets. as discussed above, decreased sales volume within the fire suppression, life safety and electronic security businesses also negatively impacted operating income. operating income was negatively impacted by restructuring charges of $32 million during 2009. additionally, management estimates that $7 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009. the same period in the prior year included $47 million of restructuring and asset impairment charges, net. operating income in 2009 also decreased by $16 million due to unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. operating income was also negatively impacted by a charge of $8 million relating to the amount of depreciation and amortization expense that would have been recorded had a business that was previously classified as held for sale been continuously classified as held and used (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). corporate and other corporate expense decreased $104 million, or 18.4%, to $461 million for 2010 compared to $565 million in 2009. corporate expense during 2009 was negatively affected by approximately $125 million of charges related to legacy securities matters partially offset by a $16 million benefit related to a settlement reached with a former executive. restructuring charges decreased to $1 million for 2010 as compared to $10 million in 2009. corporate expense was also favorably impacted by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring charges. these decreases in corporate expenses were partially offset by a $52 million net asbestos charge recorded during the third quarter of 2010 as compared to a $37 million net asbestos charge in 2009, both of which were recorded in conjunction with the valuation of our asbestos-related liabilities and insurance assets. in addition, $4 million of divestiture charges, net, and $3 million of acquisition costs were recorded during the 2010 as compared to $6 million of divestiture charges, net, and nil of acquisition costs for 2009. corporate expense for 2009 was $45 million higher as compared to the prior year, primarily resulting from a charge of approximately $125 million related to the settlement of legacy securities matters, which was partially offset by $16 million benefit related to a settlement reached with a former 44 table of contents executive. additionally, corporate expense in 2009 included $16 million of restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net. corporate expense for 2008 included net charges of $28 million composed of a $29 million charge for a legacy legal settlement, $4 million of separation costs and $5 million for restructuring, asset impairment and divestiture charges, net, offset by a credit of $10 million for class action settlement recoveries. the remaining decrease in corporate expense is primarily related to cost reduction initiatives and the restructuring program. interest income and expense interest income was $31 million in 2010, as compared to $44 million and $112 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. the decrease in interest income from 2009 primarily related to lower investment yields. interest expense was $284 million in 2010, as compared to $301 million and $396 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. the decrease in interest expense is primarily related to savings from interest rate swaps and no amounts being drawn under the revolving credit facilities in 2010, partially offset by additional interest associated with the january and october 2009 debt issuances. the weighted-average interest rate on total debt outstanding as of september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 was 6.3%, 6.6% and 6.2%, respectively. other expense, net other expense, net of $75 million in 2010 primarily relates to a charge of $87 million as a loss on extinguishment of debt on the redemption of our 6.375% public notes due 2011, 7% notes due 2028 and 6.875% notes due 2029. see note 11. this loss was partially offset by an $8 million gain recorded as a result of an increase in the receivables due from covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement. see note 6. other expense, net of $7 million in 2009 primarily relates to a $14 million charge recorded as a result of a decrease in the receivables due from covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement, which was partially offset by income of $5 million relating to a gain on derivative contracts used to economically hedge the foreign currency risk related to the swiss franc denominated dividends. other expense, net of $223 million in 2008 primarily relates to a charge of $258 million as a loss on extinguishment of debt related to the consent solicitation and exchange offers and termination of the bridge loan facility offset by income of $6 million recorded in connection with the settlement of the 3.125% convertible senior debentures and related financial instruments. we also recorded other-than-temporary impairments and realized losses on the sale of investments of $6 million related primarily to investments in corporate debt. additionally, we recorded $40 million of income as a result of an increase in the receivables due from covidien and tyco electronics under the tax sharing agreement in connection with the adoption of the guidance pertaining to the accounting for uncertain income taxes. we also recorded $6 million of expense for other activity in accordance with the tax sharing agreement during 2008. income taxes effective income tax rate our effective income tax rate was 10.9% for 2010. our tax rate was favorably impacted by pre-tax income in tax jurisdictions with low tax rates. additionally, the 2010 tax rate was further reduced by limited tax on certain business dispositions, a release of deferred tax valuation allowances and a non-recurring item generating a tax benefit. the effective income tax rate for 2009 is not meaningful primarily as a result of the loss driven by goodwill impairment charges of $2.6 billion for which almost no tax benefit was available. additionally, taxes for 2009 were positively impacted by increased 45 table of contents profitability in lower tax rate jurisdictions and release of contingency reserves partially offset by enacted tax law changes and changes in foreign exchange rates that negatively impacted the non-u.s. deferred tax assets. our effective income tax rate was 23.5% for 2008. income taxes during 2008 were positively impacted by increased profitability in lower tax rate jurisdictions and release of deferred tax valuation allowances partially offset by enacted tax law changes that negatively impacted the non-u.s. deferred tax assets. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $1,379 million and $766 million as of september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. the valuation allowance was calculated and recorded when we determined that it was more-likely-than-not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets would not be realized. we believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. other income tax matters in connection with the spin-offs of covidien and tyco electronics from tyco, tyco entered into a tax sharing agreement that governs the rights and obligations of each party with respect to certain pre-separation income tax liabilities. more specifically, tyco, covidien and tyco electronics share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of shared income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and tyco electronics' u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. consistent with the sharing provisions of the tax sharing agreement, tyco had a net receivable from covidien and tyco electronics of $114 million and $106 million as of september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009, respectively. in addition, as of september 24, 2010, tyco had a recorded liability of $554 million (of which $156 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and the remaining amount in other liabilities) representing the fair value of tyco's obligations under the tax sharing agreement as of the date of the separation. the liability was $554 million as of september 25, 2009, which was recorded in other liabilities. during the fourth quarter of 2010, we reclassified $156 million from other liabilities to accrued and other current liabilities as we expect to make a payment within the next twelve months to covidien and tyco electronics related to resolution of certain irs audit matters. tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest have been assessed as uncertain income tax positions and recorded as appropriate. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's income taxes, see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. 46 table of contents 2009 goodwill and intangible asset impairments annually in the fiscal fourth quarter, and more frequently if triggering events occur, we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets with its carrying amount. we began to experience a decline in revenue during the first quarter of 2009 in our adt worldwide, fire protection services and safety products segments as a result of a slowdown in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market as well as a decline in sales volume at our electrical metal products segments. although we considered and concluded that these factors did not constitute triggering events during the first quarter of 2009, the continued existence of these conditions during the second quarter of 2009, along with downward revisions to forecasted results, restructuring actions and weaker industry outlooks, caused us to conclude that sufficient indicators of impairment existed. reporting units within adt worldwide, fire protection services and safety products segments continued to be negatively impacted as a result of a slowdown in the commercial markets including the retailer end market. additionally, our electrical metal products reporting unit continued to be negatively impacted by a decline in sales volume due to the downturn in the non-residential construction market. we determined that these underlying events and circumstances constituted triggering events for six reporting units where such events would more likely than not reduce the fair value below their respective carrying amounts. specifically, we concluded that our emea security and emea fire reporting units within the adt worldwide and fire protection services segments, our electrical and metal products reporting unit within the electrical and metal products segment and our acvs, life safety and sensormatic retail solutions ("srs") reporting units within the safety products segment experienced triggering events such that the carrying values of these reporting units likely exceeded their fair values. furthermore, we determined that certain indefinite-lived intangible assets required impairment testing based on the underlying events and circumstances described as well as the continued deterioration of the business environment related to the retailer end market of our adt worldwide and safety products segments. as a result of the triggering events, we performed long-lived asset, goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests for these reporting units and certain of our trade names and franchise rights. fair value of each reporting unit was determined utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on forecast cash flows (including underlying revenue and operating income growth rates) discounted using an estimated weighted-average cost of capital of market participants. in determining fair value, management relied on and considered a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic projections including the timing for an economic recovery, cash flow forecasts, market data, and our overall market capitalization. based on the factors described above, actual and anticipated reductions in demand for the reporting unit's products and services as well as increased risk due to economic uncertainty, the estimates of future cash flows used in the second quarter of 2009 discounted cash flow analyses were revised downward from our most recent test conducted during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2008. furthermore, the range of the weighted-average cost of capital utilized was increased to reflect increased risk due to economic volatility and uncertainties related to demand for our products and services. the results of the goodwill impairment tests indicated that the implied goodwill amount was less than the carrying amount of goodwill for each of the aforementioned reporting units. we recorded an aggregate non-cash impairment charge of $2.6 billion ($2.6 billion after-tax) during the second quarter of 2009. the non-cash impairment charge was recorded in goodwill and intangible asset impairments in our consolidated statements of operations for the quarter ended march 27, 2009. indefinite-lived intangible assets consisting primarily of trade names and franchise rights were tested for impairment using either a relief from royalty method or excess earnings method, which include the selection of appropriate discount rates, royalty rates and terminal year growth rate assumptions and estimates of the amount and timing of future cash flows attributable to the underlying intangible assets. also, during the second quarter of 2009, our estimates of future cash flows used in 47 table of contents determining the fair value of our safety products segment sensormatic tradename as well as certain adt worldwide segment franchise rights were revised downward relative to the estimates used in our tests during the fourth quarter of 2008. the results of the impairment test indicated that the safety products sensormatic tradename and adt worldwide franchise rights estimated fair values were less than their respective carrying amounts. as a result, we recorded an aggregate non-cash impairment charge of $64 million ($40 million after-tax) during the second quarter of 2009. the non-cash impairment charge was recorded in goodwill and intangible asset impairments in our consolidated statements of operations for the quarter ended march 27, 2009. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with us gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. the following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. depreciation and amortization methods for security monitoring-related assets tyco considers assets related to the acquisition of new customers in its electronic security business in three asset categories: internally generated residential subscriber systems, internally generated commercial subscriber systems (collectively referred to as subscriber system assets) and customer accounts acquired through the adt dealer program (referred to as dealer intangibles). subscriber system assets include installed property, plant and equipment for which tyco retains ownership and deferred costs directly related to the customer acquisition and system installation. subscriber system assets and any deferred revenue resulting from the customer acquisition are accounted for over the expected life of the subscriber. in certain geographical areas where the company has a large number of customers that behave in a similar manner over time, the company accounts for subscriber system assets and related deferred revenue using pools, with separate pools for the components of subscriber system assets and any related deferred revenue based on the month and year of acquisition. the company depreciates its pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in north america) and related deferred revenue using an accelerated method with lives up to 15 years. the accelerated method utilizes declining balance rates based on geographical area ranging from 160% to 195% for residential subscriber pools and 145% to 265% for commercial subscriber pools and converts to a straight line methodology when the resulting depreciation charge is greater than that from the accelerated method. the company uses a straight-line method with a 14-year life for non-pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in europe and asia) and related deferred revenue, with remaining balances written off upon customer termination. revenue recognition contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, large security intruder systems and other construction-related projects are recorded primarily under the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon estimated contract revenue and related total cost of the project at completion. the risk of this methodology is its dependence upon estimates of costs at completion, which are subject to the uncertainties inherent in long-term contracts. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they become determinable. product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants. rebates are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. 48 table of contents loss contingencies accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. the accruals are based on judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarially determined estimates. additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. asbestos-related contingencies and insurance receivables we and certain of our subsidiaries along with numerous other companies are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. we estimate the liability and corresponding insurance recovery for pending and future claims and defense costs predominantly based on claim experience over the past five years, and a projection which covers claims expected to be filed, including related defense costs, over the next seven years on an undiscounted basis. due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the pattern and length of time over which claims will be made and then settled or litigated, we use multiple estimation methodologies based on varying scenarios of potential outcomes to estimate the range of loss. we have concluded that estimating the liability beyond the seven year period will not provide a reasonable estimate, as these uncertainties increase significantly as the projection period lengthens. in connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos-related matters, we record asbestos-related insurance recoveries that are probable. the estimate of asbestos-related insurance recoveries represents estimated amounts due to us for previously paid and settled claims and the probable reimbursements relating to estimated liability for pending and future claims. in determining the amount of insurance recoverable, we consider a number of factors, including available insurance, allocation methodologies, solvency and creditworthiness of the insurers. annually, we perform a detailed analysis with the assistance of outside legal counsel and other experts to review and update as appropriate the underlying assumptions used in the estimated asbestos-related assets and liabilities. on a quarterly basis, we re-evaluate the assumptions used to perform the annual analysis and record an expense as necessary to reflect changes in the estimated liability and related insurance asset. see note 14 to the financial statements for a discussion of management's judgments applied in the recognition and measurement of asbestos-related assets and liabilities. income taxes in determining taxable income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. these estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. in estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future pre-tax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. we currently have recorded valuation allowances that we will maintain until it is more-likely-than-not the deferred tax assets will be realized. our income tax expense recorded in the future may be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. the realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. an increase in 49 table of contents the valuation allowance could result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. management records the affect of a tax rate or law change on the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period of enactment. future tax rate or law changes could have a material effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually and more frequently if triggering events occur. in performing these assessments, management relies on various factors, including operating results, business plans, economic projections including expectations and assumptions regarding the timing and degree of any economic recovery, anticipated future cash flows, comparable market transactions (to the extent available) and other market data. we elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for all goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. fair value for the goodwill impairment test is determined utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on forecast cash flows (including estimated underlying revenue and operating income growth rates) discounted using an estimated weighted-average cost of capital for market participants. a market approach, utilizing observable market data such as comparable companies in similar lines of business that are publicly traded or which are part of a public or private transaction (to the extent available), is used to corroborate the discounted cash flow analysis performed at each reporting unit. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered potentially impaired and further tests are performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. in the second step of the goodwill impairment test, we compare the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess of the carrying amount of goodwill over its implied fair value. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. we allocate the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. based on our most recent annual goodwill impairment assessment performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we determined that none of our reporting units with significant goodwill were at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions and factors. as a result, there can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions 50 table of contents made for purposes of the annual goodwill impairment test will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. examples of events or circumstances that could reasonably be expected to negatively affect the underlying key assumptions and ultimately impact the estimated fair value of the aforementioned reporting units may include such items as follows: a prolonged downturn in the business environment in which the reporting units operate (i.e. sales volumes and prices) especially in the commercial construction and retailer end markets; an economic recovery that significantly differs from our assumptions in timing or degree; volatility in equity and debt markets resulting in higher discount rates; and unexpected regulatory changes. while historical performance and current expectations have resulted in fair values of goodwill in excess of carrying values, if our assumptions are not realized, it is possible that in the future an impairment charge may need to be recorded. however, it is not possible at this time to determine if an impairment charge would result or if such a charge would be material. long-lived assets asset groups held and used by the company, including property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset group may not be fully recoverable. tyco performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if impairment exists. for purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, tyco groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identified. if an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. impairments to long-lived assets to be disposed of are recorded based upon the fair value less cost to sell of the applicable assets. the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets is based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. since judgment is involved in determining the fair value and useful lives of long-lived assets, there is a risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may be overstated or understated. pension and postretirement benefits our pension expense and obligations are developed from actuarial valuations. two critical assumptions in determining pension expense and obligations are the discount rate and expected long-term return on plan assets. we evaluate these assumptions at least annually. other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover and are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. actual results may differ from actuarial assumptions resulting in actuarial gains and losses. for active plans, such actuarial gains and losses will be amortized over the average expected service period of the participants and in the case of inactive plans over the average remaining life expectancy of participants. the discount rate represents the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments and is used to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows for benefit obligations under our pension plans. a decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of pension benefit obligations. a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase the present value of pension obligations by approximately $89 million and increase our annual pension expense by approximately $7 million. we consider the relative weighting of plan assets by class, historical performance of asset classes over long-term periods, asset class performance expectations as well as current and future economic conditions in determining the expected long-term return on plan assets. a 50 basis point decrease in the expected long-term return on plan assets would increase our annual pension expense by approximately $8 million. liquidity and capital resources a fundamental objective of the company is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of its core businesses around the 51 table of contents world. the primary source of funds to finance our operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. in addition, we maintain a commercial paper program, have access to committed revolving credit lines and have access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources. we continue to balance our operating, investing and financing uses of cash through investment in our core businesses, strategic acquisitions and divestitures, dividends and share repurchases. we believe our cash position, amounts available under our credit facilities and cash provided by operating activities will be adequate to cover our operational and business needs. we had $1.8 billion and $2.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009, respectively. cash generated by operating activities increased to $2.6 billion for the 2010 fiscal year compared to $2.4 billion in fiscal 2009. cash used in investing activities was $1.8 billion for the 2010 fiscal year compared to $1.3 billion in fiscal 2009. cash used in financing activities was $1.4 billion for the 2010 fiscal year compared to $0.3 billion in fiscal 2009. as of september 24, 2010, our shareholder's equity was $14.1 billion and our total debt was $4.2 billion. in addition, we had lines of credit totaling approximately $1.7 billion, none of which were drawn. our ratio of total debt to total capital (the sum of our short- and long-term debt and shareholders' equity) was 23% at september 24, 2010 and 25% at september 25, 2009. this ratio is a measure of our long-term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. we continue to monitor market conditions and assess the impact, if any, on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. more than 95% of our u.s. and non-u.s. funded pension plans are invested in marketable investments, including publicly-traded equity and fixed income securities. our funding policy is to make contributions in accordance with the laws and customs of the various countries in which we operate as well as to make discretionary contributions from time to time. we anticipate that we will contribute at least the minimum required to our pension plans in 2011 of $12 million for the u.s. plans and $52 million for non-u.s. plans. we also anticipate making discretionary contributions of approximately $20 million to our u.s. plans during 2011. 52 table of contents cash flow from operating activities the sources of our cash flow from operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations for the years ended september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 and september 26, 2008 were as follows ($ in millions): 2010 2009 2008 cash flows from operating activities: operating income (loss) $ 1,598 $ (1,506 ) $ 1,896 goodwill and intangible asset impairments 2,705 10 non-cash restructuring and asset impairment charges, net (1 ) 23 34 (gain) loss on divestitures (41 ) 13 depreciation and amortization (1) 1,203 1,126 1,148 non-cash compensation expense 120 103 99 deferred income taxes (129 ) (90 ) (99 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 127 156 133 loss (gain) on the retirement of debt 87 (2 ) 258 other, net (49 ) 59 (121 ) class action settlement liability (3,020 ) net change in working capital 106 128 (640 ) interest income 31 44 112 interest expense (284 ) (301 ) (396 ) income tax expense (138 ) (71 ) (326 ) net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 2,630 $ 2,387 $ (912 ) other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net (2) $ (689 ) $ (690 ) $ (697 ) (increase) decrease in the sale of accounts receivable (2 ) 10 14 accounts purchased by adt (559 ) (543 ) (376 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (3 ) (2 ) (2 ) voluntary pension contributions 22 4 (1) includes depreciation expense of $654 million, $610 million, and $620 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and amortization of intangible assets of $549 million, $516 million and $528 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. (2) includes net proceeds received for the sale/disposition of property, plant and equipment of $29 million, $12 million and $25 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the net change in working capital increased operating cash flow by $106 million in 2010. the components of this change are set forth in detail in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the significant changes in working capital included a $119 million increase in accounts payable and an $88 million decrease in prepaid and other current assets which were partially offset by a $108 million increase in inventories. the net change in working capital increased operating cash flow by $128 million in 2009. the components of this change are set forth in detail in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the significant changes in working capital included a $346 million decrease in inventory, a $191 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $106 million net decrease in contracts in progress, partially offset by a $337 million decrease in accounts payable and a $138 million decrease in income taxes, net. the net change in working capital decreased operating cash flow by $640 million in 2008. the components of this change are set forth in detail in the consolidated statements of cash flows. the significant changes in working capital included a $186 million increase in accounts receivable, a $140 million increase in inventories and a $155 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities. 53 table of contents during 2010, 2009 and 2008 we paid approximately $160 million (inclusive of $2 million relating to the french security business being classified as held for sale), $152 million and $186 million, respectively, in cash related to restructuring activities. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our restructuring activities. income taxes paid, net of refunds, related to continuing operations were $255 million, $281 million and $489 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. cash flow from investing activities we made capital expenditures of $718 million, $702 million and $722 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008. the level of capital expenditures in fiscal year 2011 is expected to exceed the spending levels in fiscal year 2010 and is also expected to exceed depreciation. during 2010, 2009 and 2008, we paid approximately $559 million, $543 million and $376 million of cash, respectively, to acquire approximately 501,000, 512,000 and 370,000 customer contracts for electronic security services within our adt worldwide segment. during 2010, net cash paid for broadview security totaled $448 million by the company's adt worldwide segment. in addition to the net cash paid to acquire broadview security, we issued approximately $1.4 billion of common shares as consideration. we paid cash for other acquisitions included in continuing operations totaling $152 million, net of cash acquired of $1 million. additionally, our flow control segment acquired two brazilian valve companies, including hiter industria e comercio de controle termo-hidraulico ltda ("hiter"), a valve manufacturer which serves a variety of industries including the oil and gas, chemical and petrochemical markets. net cash paid for the brazilian valve companies totaled $104 million. our electrical and metal products segment acquired certain assets of a business for $39 million and our safety products segment acquired a business for $9 million. during 2010, we received cash proceeds, net of cash retained in the amount of $21 million for divestitures included in continuing operations primarily within our safety products, flow control, and adt worldwide segments. during the second quarter of 2008, tyco released $2,960 million of funds placed in escrow during the third quarter of 2007 as well as $60 million of interest earned on those funds for the benefit of the class stipulated in the court's final order related to the class action settlement of claims alleging securities fraud for actions taken by former senior management. cash flow from financing activities on may 5, 2010, tyco international finance, s.a. ("tifsa"), our finance subsidiary, issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% notes due on october 15, 2015, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us, and received net cash proceeds of approximately $495 million. on may 28, 2010, we used the net proceeds of the aforementioned offering and additional cash on hand to redeem notes which aggregated $878 million in principal amount. the notes that were redeemed were tifsa's 6.375% notes due 2011, its 7% notes due 2028 and its 6.875% notes due 2029. on october 5, 2009, tifsa issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.125% notes due on october 15, 2014, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by us, and received net cash proceeds of approximately $495 million. net repayments of short-term debt were approximately $243 million in 2010, which primarily related to the extinguishment of $200 million of outstanding commercial paper during the first quarter of 2010. as of september 24, 2010, there was no commercial paper outstanding. additionally, 54 table of contents repayments of long-term debt were $962 million, which primarily related to the redemption of all of the 6.375% public notes due 2011, 7% notes due 2028, and 6.875% notes due 2029. the repayments of long-term debt were more than offset by approximately $1.0 billion of proceeds received from the issuance of long-term debt. pursuant to our share repurchase program, we may repurchase tyco shares from time to time in open market purchases at prevailing market prices, in negotiated transactions off the market, or pursuant to an approved 10b5-1 trading plan in accordance with applicable regulations. during the year ended september 24, 2010, we repurchased approximately 24 million common shares of the remaining $900 million authorized under our $1.0 billion share repurchase program approved by our board of directors on july 10, 2008. see note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. on september 8, 2010, the board of directors approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program ("2010 share repurchase program"). on march 10, 2010, our shareholders approved an annual dividend on our common shares of chf 0.90 per share, which is being paid in the form of a return on capital in four installments of chf 0.22, chf 0.22, chf 0.23 and chf 0.23 through february 2011. during 2010, 2009 and 2008 we paid cash dividends of approximately $416 million, $388 million and $292 million, respectively. management believes that cash generated by or available to us should be sufficient to fund our capital and liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, including quarterly dividend payments and share repurchases. 55 table of contents commitments and contingencies contractual obligations contractual obligations and commitments for debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancelable operating leases and other obligations as of september 24, 2010 are as follows ($ in millions): fiscal year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total debt principal (1) $ 516 $ $ $ 656 $ 500 $ 2,379 $ 4,051 interest payments (2) 235 219 219 199 169 632 1,673 capital leases (3) 21 5 5 6 6 35 78 operating leases 254 194 131 86 56 155 876 purchase obligations (4) 488 6 3 497 total contractual cash obligations (5) $ 1,514 $ 424 $ 358 $ 947 $ 731 $ 3,201 $ 7,175 (1) excludes debt discount, swap activity and interest. (2) interest payments consist of interest on our fixed interest rate debt and exclude the impact of our interest rate swaps. as of september 24, 2010, we had swapped an aggregate of approximately $1.5 billion of fixed for floating rate debt. (3) excludes interest. (4) purchase obligations consist of commitments for purchases of goods and services. (5) other long-term liabilities excluded from the above contractual obligation table primarily consist of the following: pension and postretirement costs, income taxes, warranties and environmental liabilities. we are unable to estimate the timing of payment for these items due to the inherent uncertainties related to these obligations. however, the minimum required contributions to our pension plans are expected to be approximately $64 million in 2011 and we expect to pay $6 million in 2011 related to postretirement benefit plans. in addition, we expect to make a payment of $156 million for resolution of certain of the outstanding irs audit matters within the next twelve months (see note 6). as of september 24, 2010, we recorded gross unrecognized tax benefits of $318 million and gross interest and penalties of $63 million. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing for the payments in future years of such unrecognized tax benefits; therefore, such amounts have been excluded from the above contractual obligation table. however, based on the current status of our income tax audits, we believe that is reasonably possible that between $18 million and $140 million in unrecognized tax benefits may be resolved in the next twelve months. as of september 24, 2010, we had total commitments of $1.69 billion under our revolving credit facilities, $500 million of which expires on june 24, 2011 and $1.19 billion of which expires on april 25, 2012. as of september 24, 2010, there were no amounts drawn under these revolving credit facilities. tifsa's bank credit agreements contain customary terms and conditions, and financial covenants that limit the ratio of our debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and that limit our ability to incur subsidiary debt or grant liens on our property. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our business. in may 2008, tifsa commenced issuing commercial paper to u.s. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers. borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes. as of september 24, 2010, tifsa had no commercial paper outstanding. in the normal course of business, we are liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 56 table of contents in connection with the separation, we entered into a liability sharing agreement regarding certain actions that were pending against tyco prior to the separation. under the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, we have assumed 27%, covidien has assumed 42% and tyco electronics has assumed 31% of certain tyco pre-separation contingent and other corporate liabilities, which, as of september 24, 2010, primarily relate to tax contingencies and potential actions with respect to the spin-offs or the distributions made or brought by any third party. backlog as of september 24, 2010 we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $9.5 billion compared to a backlog of $8.9 billion as of september 25, 2009. we expect that approximately 87% of our backlog as of september 24, 2010 will be filled during the next 12 months. backlog by segment was as follows ($ in millions): september 24, 2010 september 25, 2009 adt worldwide $ 6,589 $ 5,916 flow control 1,482 1,646 fire protection services 1,196 1,171 electrical and metal products 88 72 safety products 121 102 $ 9,476 $ 8,907 backlog increased $569 million, or 6.4%, to $9.5 billion as of september 24, 2010. the increase in backlog was primarily due to an increase in recurring revenue-in-force in our adt worldwide segment, partially offset by decreased bookings in our flow control segment. adt worldwide's backlog includes recurring revenue-in-force and long-term deferred revenue for upfront fees paid by customers for adt owned security systems. revenue-in-force represents 12 months' revenue associated with monitoring and maintenance services under contract in the security business. adt worldwide's backlog of $6.6 billion and $5.9 billion as of september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009, respectively, consists primarily of $4.8 billion and $4.0 billion of recurring revenue-in-force as of september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009, respectively, and $1.1 billion of deferred revenue for both september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009. adt worldwide's backlog increased $673 million primarily driven by an increase in revenue-in-force of $724 million, including $540 million estimated to be contributed by the broadview security acquisition, and favorable changes in foreign currency of $15 million. these increases were partially offset by a decrease in bookings of $48 million in our adt emea operations and a reduction in deferred revenue of $36 million. flow control's backlog decreased by $164 million primarily due to decreased bookings of $162 million as several large projects were completed during fiscal 2010. fire protection's backlog increased by $25 million primarily due to an increase of $100 million in the asia-pacific region and favorable changes in foreign currency of $14 million. these increases were partially offset by decreases experienced in emea and north america of $57 million and $18 million, respectively. backlog within safety products increased $19 million primarily as a result of increased orders across various businesses. off-balance sheet arrangements sale of accounts receivable certain of our international businesses utilize the sale of accounts receivable as short-term financing mechanisms. the aggregate amount outstanding under our international accounts receivable programs was not material as of september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 or september 26, 2008. 57 table of contents guarantees certain of our business segments have guaranteed the performance of third-parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. the terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from the current fiscal year through the completion of such transactions. the guarantees would typically be triggered in the event of nonperformance and performance under the guarantees, if required, would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. there are certain guarantees or indemnifications extended among tyco, covidien and tyco electronics in accordance with the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement. the guarantees primarily relate to certain contingent tax liabilities included in the tax sharing agreement. at the time of the separation, we recorded a liability necessary to recognize the fair value of such guarantees and indemnifications. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the tax sharing agreement. in addition, prior to the separation we provided support in the form of financial and/or performance guarantees to various covidien and tyco electronics operating entities. to the extent these guarantees were not assigned in connection with the separation, we assumed primary liability on any remaining such support. these obligations were not material to us as of september 24, 2010. in disposing of assets or businesses, we often provide representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. we have no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these liabilities. in the normal course of business, we are liable for contract completion and product performance. we record estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. as of september 24, 2010, we had total outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees of approximately $740 million. for a detailed discussion of guarantees and indemnifications, see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. accounting pronouncements see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements. forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the securities and exchange commission ("sec"), or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating and tax efficiencies, product 58 table of contents expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performances or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions; the demand for tyco's goods and services; competitive factors in the industries in which tyco competes; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws or treaties and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigations and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations including its business operations outside the united states; the outcome of litigation, arbitrations and governmental proceedings; effect of income tax audit settlement and appeals; our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including availability of funding sources and currency exchange rate fluctuations; availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials, including steel and copper; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and six sigma initiatives; our ability to execute our portfolio refinement and acquisition strategies; potential further impairment of our goodwill, intangibles and/or our long-lived assets; the impact of fluctuations in the price of tyco common shares; risks associated with the change in our swiss incorporation, including the possibility of reduced flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management, increased or different regulatory burdens, and the possibility that we may not realize anticipated tax benefits; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. government laws and regulations; and the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the united states that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco international's swiss incorporation or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its swiss incorporation. 59 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures to which we believe we are subject. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign currency options, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and forward commodity contracts. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having at least an a-/a3 long-term debt rating. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. foreign currency exposures we hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts. during 2010, our largest exposures to foreign exchange rates existed primarily with the swiss franc, british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign currency exchange contracts (excluding the dividend hedge contract discussed below) is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 24, 2010. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in an immaterial net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in an immaterial net increase in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. effective march 17, 2009, tyco changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from bermuda to switzerland. until the last payment is made in february 2011, tyco intends to make dividend payments in the form of a reduction of capital denominated in swiss francs. however, the company expects to actually pay these dividends in u.s. dollars, based on exchange rates in effect shortly before the payment date. fluctuations in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to the swiss franc between the date the dividend is declared and paid will increase or decrease the u.s. dollar amount required to be paid. the company manages the potential variability in cash flows associated with the dividend payments by entering into derivative financial instruments used as economic hedges of the underlying risk. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the swiss franc would result in a $21 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the swiss franc would result in a $25 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the amount of the dividend we would be required to pay. during the third quarter of 2010, tyco international finance, s.a. ("tifsa"), the company's finance subsidiary, entered into foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge its euro denominated net investment. the aggregate notional amount of these hedges was approximately $255 million as of september 24, 2010. the potential impact from a 10% appreciation of the u.s. 60 table of contents dollar relative to the euro would result in a $25 million net increase in other comprehensive income. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $30 million net decrease in other comprehensive income. as of september 24, 2010, and september 25, 2009 $3.0 billion of intercompany loans have been designated as permanent in nature. for the fiscal years ended september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009, we recorded $24 million and nil, respectively, of cumulative translation loss through accumulated other comprehensive loss related to these loans. interest rate exposures our long-term debt portfolio primarily consists of fixed-rate instruments. the company manages its interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap transactions with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties, which were designated as fair value hedges for accounting purposes. during the third quarter of 2009, first quarter of 2010 and third quarter of 2010, the company entered into interest rate swap transactions with the objective of managing the exposure to interest rate risk by converting the interest rates on $1.4 billion, $500 million, and $501 million, respectively of fixed-rate debt to variable rates. in these contracts, the company agreed with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated on an agreed-upon notional principal amount. in connection with the redemption of all of the 6.375% public notes due 2011 during the third quarter of 2010, the company terminated the corresponding interest rate swaps. as of september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009, the total gross notional amount of the company's interest rate swap contracts was $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates relative to interest rates as of september 24, 2010 would result in a $37 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates relative to interest rates as of september 24, 2010 would result in a $38 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. commodity exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of raw materials used in some of our products and may, in limited circumstances, enter into hedging contracts to manage those exposures. these exposures are monitored as an integral part of our risk management program. during 2010, the company entered into commodity swaps for copper which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. these swaps did not have a material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in the price of copper as of september 24, 2010 would not have a material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.risk factors 9 risk factors risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters and item 3. legal proceedings. environmental matters we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. 8 table of contents given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $38 million to $86 million as of september 30, 2011. as of september 30, 2011, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $60 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $42 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. in view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. employees as of september 30, 2011, we employed approximately 102,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 39,000 are employed in the united states and 63,000 are outside the united states. approximately 22,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. available information tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. investors may read and copy any document that tyco files, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, dc 20549. investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec, from which investors can electronically access tyco's sec filings. our internet website is www.tyco.com . we make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, reports filed pursuant to section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the sec. as a swiss company, we prepare swiss statutory financial statements, including swiss consolidated financial statements, on an annual basis. a copy of the swiss statutory financial statements is distributed along with our annual report to shareholders, and all of the aforementioned reports will be made available to our shareholders upon their request. in addition, we have posted the charters for our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee, and nominating and governance committee, as well as our board governance principles and guide to ethical conduct, on our website under the heading "corporate citizenship governance." the annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. we will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as technological obsolescence, labor relations, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. 9 table of contents risks relating to our businesses general economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain industries in which we operate. for example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial construction, the amount of discretionary consumer and business spending, and the performance of the housing market, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. economic weakness in some end markets has adversely affected certain of our businesses. events or conditions that adversely impact the health of the u.s. or global economies, or in the industries in which we operate, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we face intense competition in each of our businesses, and competitive challenges from lower cost manufacturers. if we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected. we operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service providers, both domestically and on a global basis. our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from alternative service providers around the world. key components of our competitive position are our ability to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. this requires continuous management focus on reducing costs, maintaining our competitive position and improving efficiency through cost controls, productivity enhancements and regular appraisal of our asset portfolio. if we are unable to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be adversely affected. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to successfully compete with new and existing competitors by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and potential new entrants in our markets. for example, a number of cable and other telecommunications companies have introduced security services offerings, including interactive security services, that are competitive with the products and services offered through our tyco security solutions business. if these services are aggressively marketed and gain market acceptance, our ability to grow our tyco security solutions business, in particular our pulse offering, could be materially adversely affected. accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; develop, acquire and maintain competitive products and services; enhance our products and services by adding innovative features that differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; and develop or acquire, manufacture and bring products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. our ability to develop or acquire new products and services based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis. moreover, as we introduce new products such as pulse, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in the product or in its installation, which could result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. even after introduction, new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. as a result, these 10 table of contents products may not achieve market acceptance and our brand images could suffer. in addition, our competitors may introduce superior designs or business strategies, impairing our brands and the desirability of our products and services, which may cause consumers to defer or forego purchases of our products and services. in addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. as a result, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance, the potential for product defects or the obsolescence of our products and services could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our tyco security solutions business may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. if customers in our tyco security solutions business segment are dissatisfied with our products or services and switch to competitive products or services, or disconnect for other reasons, our attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, tyco security solutions' recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services we provide. tyco amortizes the costs of adt's acquired contracts and related customer relationships based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if attrition rates were to rise significantly, we may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. we generated 52% of our net revenue outside of the united states in 2011. we expect net revenue generated outside of the united states to continue to represent a significant portion of total net revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-u.s. legal systems; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; changes in enacted tax laws; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and fluctuations in revenues, operating margins and other financial measures due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 11 table of contents changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, result of operations or cash flows. we are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2011 was 52% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. therefore, if the u.s. dollar has strengthened in relation to the principle foreign currencies where we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheet data and average exchange rates for statement of operations data). in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to maintain the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable and other information, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such information, or a violation of the company's privacy and security policies with respect to such information, could adversely affect us. we are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and, in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers, stockholders and employees. the legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain such information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. a significant actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, stockholder, employee or our data by cybercrime or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against us. in addition, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our 12 table of contents operations. increasingly, our security products and services are accessed through the internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services via the internet may affect us and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. our culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular we strive to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. if we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, our operations could be adversely affected. in addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. the demand for experienced management in certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified employees. high turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have recognized substantial impairment charges in the past and may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in material charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. for example, during the second fiscal quarter of 2009, we recognized aggregate goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $2.7 billion. we maintain significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, and we believe that as of september 30, 2011 these balances are recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continually evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, 13 table of contents products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. in addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. we may acquire companies and make investments in order to complement existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. risks related to the 2012 separation the proposed spin-offs of our north american residential security business and our flow control business are contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management, may not achieve the intended results, and may present difficulties that could have an adverse effect on us. the proposed spin-offs of our north american residential security business and our flow control business are complex in nature, subject to various conditions, and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. we expect to file registration statements on form 10 with the sec that will contain detailed information regarding the businesses proposed to be spun-off. completion of these spin-off transactions will be contingent upon a number of factors, including the approval of our shareholders, favorable rulings from tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), the effectiveness of each of the registration statements, favorable capital market conditions and other conditions. for these and other reasons, the spin-off transactions may not be completed as expected by the end of the third calendar quarter of 2012, if at all. additionally, execution of the proposed spinoff transactions will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our businesses and the execution of our other initiatives. our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off transactions. further, if the spin-off transactions are completed, each of these transactions may not achieve the intended results and may result in costs that exceed management's estimated amount of $700 million. any such 14 table of contents difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. if the distributions or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we or our shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we will request a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, (i) the distributions of our north american residential security and flow control common shares to our shareholders, except for cash, if any, received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and/or 361 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("the code") and (ii) certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions will quality for favorable treatment under the code. our receipt of the private letter ruling is critical to the completion of the spin-offs. the private letter ruling will be based on certain facts, assumptions, representations and covenants provided by us regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. if any of the facts, assumptions, representations or covenants provided in connection with the private letter ruling is inaccurate or incomplete or is violated in any respect, then we might not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs will not rule on whether the spin-offs satisfy certain requirements necessary for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. rather, the private letter ruling will be based on representations provided by us that those requirements have been or will be satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. the 2012 separation will also be conditioned on our receipt of an opinion of outside counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to us, that confirms the tax-free status of the distributions. the opinion will rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and certain facts, assumptions, representations and covenants provided by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion, the spin-offs are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, each u.s. holder of our common stock who is subject to u.s. federal income tax who receives shares of our north american residential security and flow control businesses would generally be treated as receiving taxable distributions of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. those distributions would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. for each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. in addition, internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs are ultimately determined to be taxable, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. the tax sharing agreement that we will enter into with the north american residential security and flow control businesses prior to the completion of the spin-offs will allocate for any taxes that arise if the spin-offs or certain internal transactions are determined to be taxable. if the 2012 separation is determined to be taxable for swiss withholding tax purposes, we could incur significant swiss withholding tax liabilities. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to our shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. beginning on january 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of contributed surplus accumulated on or after january 1, 1997 are exempt from swiss withholding tax. accordingly, based on the swiss federal withholding tax act, the distribution should not be subject to swiss federal withholding tax. prior to the completion of the 15 table of contents proposed spin-offs, we intend to obtain tax rulings from the swiss federal tax administration confirming that the distributions will not be subject to swiss federal withholding tax. these rulings will rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco regarding the past conduct of its businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the tax rulings, the swiss federal tax administration could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable for withholding tax purposes, we and tyco could incur material swiss withholding tax liabilities that could significantly detract from, or eliminate, the benefits of the spin-off. if the 2012 separation is completed, our operational and financial profile will change and we will be a smaller, less diversified company. if completed, the 2012 separation will result in tyco being a smaller, less diversified company focused on our commercial fire and security businesses, which represents a narrower business focus than we currently have. we will have a more limited business with greater concentration in the commercial market and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows will diminish. as a result, it is possible that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility and it may be difficult or more expensive for us to obtain financing. our operations may also be impacted by a limited ability to attract new employees in a timely manner. if the 2012 separation is completed, there may be substantial changes in our stockholder base, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate following the proposed spin-offs. investors holding our common stock may hold our common stock because of a decision to invest in a company that is large and operates in multiple markets with a diversified product and services portfolio. if the proposed spin-off transactions are completed, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a smaller company with its business concentrated in the commercial fire and security industry. these changes may not match some holders' investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause investors to sell their shares of our common stock. excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease following the completion of the proposed spinoff. risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to a significant number of claims and are named as a defendant in numerous lawsuits, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products or services, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, litigation related to environmental matters, product liability litigation (including asbestos-related claims), and litigation related to employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. 16 table of contents legislative action by the u.s. congress could materially adversely affect us. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties or regulations upon which we rely, which would adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subjected to increased taxation. also, various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to u.s. companies that move their locations abroad. we cannot provide assurance that such legislation, if enacted, would not apply to us. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the u.s. but are domiciled abroad. we cannot provide assurance that we will not be subject to such criticism as a result of our domicile in switzerland. changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our tyco security solutions segment relies heavily upon both wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals, and these technologies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third party intermediaries. furthermore, we are subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries and third party intermediaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. we have continued to report to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations and our own 17 table of contents internal investigations, and in february 2010, we initiated discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters, which remain ongoing. although we have recorded our best estimate of potential loss related to these or other similar matters, it is possible that this estimate may differ from the ultimate loss determined in connection with the resolution of this matter, as we may be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, consent to the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the 2007 separation of our electronics and healthcare businesses, primarily those relating to pre-separation income tax liabilities. under agreements entered in connection with the 2007 separation of our electronics ("te connectivity") and healthcare ("covidien") businesses, we, covidien and te connectivity have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities, subject to certain exceptions. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to pre-2007 separation income tax liabilities. liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies are not allocated. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. we are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 table of contents in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. we have observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, where appropriate, settling suits before trial. we cannot predict the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against the company. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we record an estimated liability related to pending claims and claims estimated to be received over the next seven years, including related defense costs, based on a number of key assumptions and estimation methodologies. these assumptions are derived from claims experience over the past five years and reflect our expectations about future claim activities over the next seven years. these assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, we may incur additional liabilities in the future. a change in one or more of the inputs used to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending and future claims. although it is possible that the company will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond the next seven years, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. we also record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. there are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, success in litigation in certain cases, the methodology for allocating claims to policies, and the continued solvency of the insurers or other responsible parties. the assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as a result, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables or cash flows expected to reduce our asbestos costs. due to these uncertainties, as well as our inability to reasonably estimate any additional asbestos liability for claims that may be filed beyond the next seven years, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the cost, nor potential recoveries, of resolving the pending and all unasserted asbestos claims. additionally, we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond the next seven years, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 19 table of contents our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, oil, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and structure decontamination and demolition, including asbestos abatement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $38 million to $86 million as of september 30, 2011. as of september 30, 2011, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $60 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $42 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. 20 table of contents risks related to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in the company's subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse affects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 21 table of contents such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate purposes, including dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. risks relating to tax matters we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and te connectivity's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement entered in connections with the 2007 separation, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and te connectivity's income tax liabilities that result in cash payments, based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 separation. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will generally be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and te connectivity are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in connection with the execution of the tax sharing agreement, we established receivables from covidien and te connectivity representing the amount we expected to receive for pre-separation uncertain tax positions. we also established liabilities representing the fair market value of our share of their estimated obligations under the tax sharing agreement. as of september 30, 2011, we had recorded $73 million in other assets and $16 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets representing the receivables from covidien and te connectivity. we had also recorded $387 million in other liabilities and $49 million in accrued and other current liabilities representing our estimated obligations to covidien and te connectivity under the tax sharing agreement. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and te connectivity's tax liabilities. 22 table of contents examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the 2007 separation. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. although we expect to resolve a substantial number of the proposed tax adjustments with the irs, a few significant items are expected to remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, it is unlikely that we will be able to resolve these open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany transactions during the period related to the audits, through the irs appeals process. as a result, we may be required to litigate these matters. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. we have assessed our obligations under the tax sharing agreement and determined that the recorded liability is sufficient to cover the indemnifications made by us under such agreement. however, such amount could differ materially from amounts that are actually determined to be due, and any such difference could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. if the distribution of covidien and te connectivity common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the 2007 separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and te connectivity common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. the private letter rulings relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and te connectivity regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and te connectivity common shares distributed to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the 2007 separation should be treated as taxable transactions. 23 table of contents risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of tyco's securities. because of differences between swiss law and u.s. state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of swiss companies and those incorporated in the u.s., it may not be possible to enforce in switzerland, court judgments obtained in the united states against tyco based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon tyco or its directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. as a result of our change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland and the increase in the par value of our shares, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. in connection with our change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland, we significantly increased the par value of our shares. currently the par value of our shares is chf 6.70 (or approximately $7.44 based on the exchange rate in effect on november 7, 2011). under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value. as of november 7, 2011 the closing price of our ordinary shares on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") was $46.47. in the event there is a need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our registered shares is below our par value, we would need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our registered shares. we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval in a timely manner. obtaining shareholder approval would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. if we were to receive shareholder approval to reduce the par value of our registered shares, the 24 table of contents reduction would decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital, which may subject shareholders to swiss withholding tax. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our net revenue derived from sales in non-u.s. markets for 2011 was 52% of our total net revenue, and we expect revenue from non-u.s. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. therefore, if the u.s. dollar has strengthened in relation to the principle foreign currencies where we derive revenue as compared to a prior period, our u.s. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease, and vice-versa. changes in the relative values of currencies occur regularly and in some instances, may have a significant effect on our results of operations. our financial statements reflect translation of items denominated in non-u.s. currencies to u.s. dollars, our functional currency (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheet data and average exchange rates for statement of operations data). in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to maintain the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable and other information, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such information, or a violation of the company's privacy and security policies with respect to such information, could adversely affect us. we are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and, in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers, stockholders and employees. the legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain such information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. a significant actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, stockholder, employee or our data by cybercrime or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against us. in addition, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our 12 table of contents operations. increasingly, our security products and services are accessed through the internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services via the internet may affect us and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. failure to retain or attract qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. our culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular we strive to attract, motivate and retain qualified managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. if we fail to retain and attract qualified personnel, our operations could be adversely affected. in addition, excessive turnover in personnel could cause manufacturing inefficiencies in certain of our businesses. the demand for experienced management in certain geographic areas also makes it difficult to retain qualified employees. high turnover could result in additional training and inefficiencies that could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we have recognized substantial impairment charges in the past and may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to periodically assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. disruptions to our business, end market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in material charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. for example, during the second fiscal quarter of 2009, we recognized aggregate goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $2.7 billion. we maintain significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, and we believe that as of september 30, 2011 these balances are recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. additional impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected to the annual impairment analysis. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continually evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, 13 table of contents products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. in addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line. we may acquire companies and make investments in order to complement existing businesses. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. risks related to the 2012 separation the proposed spin-offs of our north american residential security business and our flow control business are contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may require significant time and attention of our management, may not achieve the intended results, and may present difficulties that could have an adverse effect on us. the proposed spin-offs of our north american residential security business and our flow control business are complex in nature, subject to various conditions, and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. we expect to file registration statements on form 10 with the sec that will contain detailed information regarding the businesses proposed to be spun-off. completion of these spin-off transactions will be contingent upon a number of factors, including the approval of our shareholders, favorable rulings from tax authorities, including the internal revenue service ("irs"), the effectiveness of each of the registration statements, favorable capital market conditions and other conditions. for these and other reasons, the spin-off transactions may not be completed as expected by the end of the third calendar quarter of 2012, if at all. additionally, execution of the proposed spinoff transactions will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our businesses and the execution of our other initiatives. our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off transactions. further, if the spin-off transactions are completed, each of these transactions may not achieve the intended results and may result in costs that exceed management's estimated amount of $700 million. any such 14 table of contents difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. if the distributions or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we or our shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we will request a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, (i) the distributions of our north american residential security and flow control common shares to our shareholders, except for cash, if any, received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and/or 361 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("the code") and (ii) certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions will quality for favorable treatment under the code. our receipt of the private letter ruling is critical to the completion of the spin-offs. the private letter ruling will be based on certain facts, assumptions, representations and covenants provided by us regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. if any of the facts, assumptions, representations or covenants provided in connection with the private letter ruling is inaccurate or incomplete or is violated in any respect, then we might not be able to rely on the ruling. furthermore, the irs will not rule on whether the spin-offs satisfy certain requirements necessary for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code. rather, the private letter ruling will be based on representations provided by us that those requirements have been or will be satisfied, and any inaccuracy in those representations could invalidate the ruling. the 2012 separation will also be conditioned on our receipt of an opinion of outside counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to us, that confirms the tax-free status of the distributions. the opinion will rely on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and certain facts, assumptions, representations and covenants provided by us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any respect, could jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion. the opinion will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. if, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and opinion, the spin-offs are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, each u.s. holder of our common stock who is subject to u.s. federal income tax who receives shares of our north american residential security and flow control businesses would generally be treated as receiving taxable distributions of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. those distributions would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. for each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder's tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain. in addition, internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the spin-offs are ultimately determined to be taxable, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. the tax sharing agreement that we will enter into with the north american residential security and flow control businesses prior to the completion of the spin-offs will allocate for any taxes that arise if the spin-offs or certain internal transactions are determined to be taxable. if the 2012 separation is determined to be taxable for swiss withholding tax purposes, we could incur significant swiss withholding tax liabilities. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to our shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. beginning on january 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of contributed surplus accumulated on or after january 1, 1997 are exempt from swiss withholding tax. accordingly, based on the swiss federal withholding tax act, the distribution should not be subject to swiss federal withholding tax. prior to the completion of the 15 table of contents proposed spin-offs, we intend to obtain tax rulings from the swiss federal tax administration confirming that the distributions will not be subject to swiss federal withholding tax. these rulings will rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco regarding the past conduct of its businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the tax rulings, the swiss federal tax administration could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable for withholding tax purposes, we and tyco could incur material swiss withholding tax liabilities that could significantly detract from, or eliminate, the benefits of the spin-off. if the 2012 separation is completed, our operational and financial profile will change and we will be a smaller, less diversified company. if completed, the 2012 separation will result in tyco being a smaller, less diversified company focused on our commercial fire and security businesses, which represents a narrower business focus than we currently have. we will have a more limited business with greater concentration in the commercial market and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows will diminish. as a result, it is possible that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility and it may be difficult or more expensive for us to obtain financing. our operations may also be impacted by a limited ability to attract new employees in a timely manner. if the 2012 separation is completed, there may be substantial changes in our stockholder base, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate following the proposed spin-offs. investors holding our common stock may hold our common stock because of a decision to invest in a company that is large and operates in multiple markets with a diversified product and services portfolio. if the proposed spin-off transactions are completed, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a smaller company with its business concentrated in the commercial fire and security industry. these changes may not match some holders' investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause investors to sell their shares of our common stock. excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease following the completion of the proposed spinoff. risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to a significant number of claims and are named as a defendant in numerous lawsuits, including claims for damages arising out of the use or installation of our products or services, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, litigation related to environmental matters, product liability litigation (including asbestos-related claims), and litigation related to employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. the defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures. 16 table of contents legislative action by the u.s. congress could materially adversely affect us. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties or regulations upon which we rely, which would adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subjected to increased taxation. also, various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that deny, or would deny, government contracts to u.s. companies that move their locations abroad. we cannot provide assurance that such legislation, if enacted, would not apply to us. in addition, there continues to be negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies that conduct substantial business in the u.s. but are domiciled abroad. we cannot provide assurance that we will not be subject to such criticism as a result of our domicile in switzerland. changes in legislation or governmental regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we operate in regulated industries. our u.s. operations are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies with respect to safety of operations and equipment, labor and employment matters and financial responsibility. intrastate operations in the united states are subject to regulation by state regulatory authorities, and our international operations are regulated by the countries in which they operate and by extra-territorial laws. we and our employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as non-u.s. laws and regulations, including many related to consumer protection. most states in which we operate have licensing laws covering the monitored security services industry and the construction industry. our tyco security solutions segment relies heavily upon both wireline and wireless telephone service to communicate signals, and these technologies are regulated by both the federal and state governments. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations changed or we failed to comply, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the sec, increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third party intermediaries. furthermore, we are subject to investigations by the doj and the sec related to allegations that improper payments have been made by our subsidiaries and third party intermediaries in recent years in violation of the fcpa. we have continued to report to the doj and the sec the remedial measures that we have taken in response to the allegations and our own 17 table of contents internal investigations, and in february 2010, we initiated discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters, which remain ongoing. although we have recorded our best estimate of potential loss related to these or other similar matters, it is possible that this estimate may differ from the ultimate loss determined in connection with the resolution of this matter, as we may be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, consent to the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. certain of the products we manufacture are "dual use" products, which are products that may have both civil and military applications, or may otherwise be involved in weapons proliferation, and are often subject to more stringent export controls. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the 2007 separation of our electronics and healthcare businesses, primarily those relating to pre-separation income tax liabilities. under agreements entered in connection with the 2007 separation of our electronics ("te connectivity") and healthcare ("covidien") businesses, we, covidien and te connectivity have agreed to assume and be responsible for 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of certain of our contingent and other corporate liabilities, subject to certain exceptions. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. these contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to pre-2007 separation income tax liabilities. liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies are not allocated. if any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities including associated costs and expenses. we are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 table of contents in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these limitations will be enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in a substantial number of lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. we have observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims. our strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, where appropriate, settling suits before trial. we cannot predict the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against the company. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we record an estimated liability related to pending claims and claims estimated to be received over the next seven years, including related defense costs, based on a number of key assumptions and estimation methodologies. these assumptions are derived from claims experience over the past five years and reflect our expectations about future claim activities over the next seven years. these assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, we may incur additional liabilities in the future. a change in one or more of the inputs used to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending and future claims. although it is possible that the company will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond the next seven years, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. we also record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. there are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, success in litigation in certain cases, the methodology for allocating claims to policies, and the continued solvency of the insurers or other responsible parties. the assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as a result, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables or cash flows expected to reduce our asbestos costs. due to these uncertainties, as well as our inability to reasonably estimate any additional asbestos liability for claims that may be filed beyond the next seven years, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the cost, nor potential recoveries, of resolving the pending and all unasserted asbestos claims. additionally, we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond the next seven years, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 19 table of contents our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. these projects relate to a variety of activities, including: solvent, oil, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and structure decontamination and demolition, including asbestos abatement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $38 million to $86 million as of september 30, 2011. as of september 30, 2011, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $60 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $42 million is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. 20 table of contents risks related to our liquidity disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, as access to liquidity may be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets, leading to increased funding costs or unavailability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in the company's subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse affects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 21 table of contents such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate purposes, including dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. risks relating to tax matters we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and te connectivity's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. under the tax sharing agreement entered in connections with the 2007 separation, we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and te connectivity's income tax liabilities that result in cash payments, based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. more specifically, we, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 separation. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will generally be shared equally among the parties. we are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in addition, covidien and te connectivity are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the tax sharing agreement's sharing formula. in connection with the execution of the tax sharing agreement, we established receivables from covidien and te connectivity representing the amount we expected to receive for pre-separation uncertain tax positions. we also established liabilities representing the fair market value of our share of their estimated obligations under the tax sharing agreement. as of september 30, 2011, we had recorded $73 million in other assets and $16 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets representing the receivables from covidien and te connectivity. we had also recorded $387 million in other liabilities and $49 million in accrued and other current liabilities representing our estimated obligations to covidien and te connectivity under the tax sharing agreement. if any party to the tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and te connectivity's tax liabilities. 22 table of contents examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the internal revenue service, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the 2007 separation. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. although we expect to resolve a substantial number of the proposed tax adjustments with the irs, a few significant items are expected to remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, it is unlikely that we will be able to resolve these open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany transactions during the period related to the audits, through the irs appeals process. as a result, we may be required to litigate these matters. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. we have assessed our obligations under the tax sharing agreement and determined that the recorded liability is sufficient to cover the indemnifications made by us under such agreement. however, such amount could differ materially from amounts that are actually determined to be due, and any such difference could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. if the distribution of covidien and te connectivity common shares to our shareholders or certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the 2007 separation are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have received private letter rulings from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of covidien and te connectivity common shares to our shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution of such shares, except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares, will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the private letter rulings also provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the code. the private letter rulings relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco, covidien and te connectivity regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, we would recognize a gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the covidien and te connectivity common shares distributed to our shareholders on june 29, 2007 over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we would incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it ultimately is determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the 2007 separation should be treated as taxable transactions. 23 table of contents risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of tyco's securities. because of differences between swiss law and u.s. state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of swiss companies and those incorporated in the u.s., it may not be possible to enforce in switzerland, court judgments obtained in the united states against tyco based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon tyco or its directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. as a result of our change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland and the increase in the par value of our shares, we may have less flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. in connection with our change of domicile from bermuda to switzerland, we significantly increased the par value of our shares. currently the par value of our shares is chf 6.70 (or approximately $7.44 based on the exchange rate in effect on november 7, 2011). under swiss law, we generally may not issue registered shares for an amount below par value. as of november 7, 2011 the closing price of our ordinary shares on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") was $46.47. in the event there is a need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our registered shares is below our par value, we would need to obtain approval of our shareholders to decrease the par value of our registered shares. we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval in a timely manner. obtaining shareholder approval would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. if we were to receive shareholder approval to reduce the par value of our registered shares, the 24 table of contents reduction would decrease our ability to pay dividends as a repayment of share capital, which may subject shareholders to swiss withholding tax. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties our operations are conducted in facilities throughout the world aggregating approximately 28 million square feet of floor space, of which approximately 9 million square feet are owned and approximately 19 million square feet are leased. these facilities house manufacturing, distribution and warehousing operations, as well as sales and marketing, engineering and administrative offices. tyco security solutions operates through a network of offices, service and manufacturing facilities and warehouse and distribution centers located in north america, central america, south america, europe, the middle east, the asia-pacific region and south africa. the group occupies approximately 8 million square feet, of which 2 million square feet are owned and 6 million square feet are leased. tyco fire protection operates through a network of offices, manufacturing facilities and warehouse and distribution centers located in north america, central america, south america, europe and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 9 million square feet, of which 2 million square feet are owned and 7 million square feet are leased. tyco flow control has manufacturing facilities, warehouses and distribution centers throughout north america, south america, europe, the middle east and the asia-pacific region. the group occupies approximately 11 million square feet, of which 5 million square feet are owned and 6 million square feet are leased. in the opinion of management, our properties and equipment are in good operating condition and are adequate for our present needs. we do not anticipate difficulty in renewing existing leases as they expire or in finding alternative facilities. see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of our lease obligations. item 3. legal proceedings during the fiscal quarter ended december 24, 2010, certain contingencies related to the previously disclosed settlement of the stumpf v. tyco international ltd. class action lawsuit elapsed. this matter, which was subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement with covidien and te connectivity had previously received final court approval for its settlement. as a result of the lapsing of time periods for certain class members to state a claim against the company, the company adjusted its remaining reserve for this and other legacy securities matters and recognized a net gain of $7 million during the quarter ended december 24, 2010. since june 2007, the company has resolved substantially all of the legacy claims related to securities fraud and similar matters, with the exception of the claims related to former management and mr. frank walsh jr., a former director, described below. tyco is a party to several lawsuits involving disputes with former management, among which are affirmative cases brought by tyco against mr. dennis l. kozlowski, tyco's former chief executive officer, mr. mark swartz, its former chief financial officer, and mr. frank walsh jr., a former director. in connection with these affirmative actions, mr. kozlowski, through counterclaims, and mr. swartz, through demand letters, are seeking an aggregate of approximately $138 million allegedly due in connection with their compensation and retention arrangements and under erisa. 25 table of contents with respect to mr. kozlowski, on december 1, 2010, the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york ruled in favor of several of the company's affirmative claims against him before trial, while dismissing all of mr. kozlowski's counterclaims for pay and benefits after 1995. with respect to mr. swartz, on march 3, 2011, the same court granted the company's motion for summary judgment. the court further ruled that issues related to damages will need to be resolved at trial. no trial date has been set. the company expects mr. kozlowski and mr. swartz to contest these decisions. as a result, the company has and will continue to maintain the reserve recorded in its consolidated balance sheet for the amounts allegedly due under their compensation and retention arrangements and under erisa until the appeals process is complete. although the ultimate resolution of these matters could differ materially from these estimates, the company does not believe such resolution would have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. tyco has also brought an action against mr. walsh in connection with the damages suffered by tyco arising from mr. walsh's breach of his fiduciary duties to tyco. in october 2010, the u.s. district court for the southern district of new york denied tyco's affirmative claims for recovery of damages against mr. walsh. tyco is pursuing an appeal. this affirmative matter, and the affirmative matters against messrs. kozlowski and swartz, are not subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement. separately, mr. walsh is pursuing a new york state court claim against the company asserting his entitlement to indemnification. this action is subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement. environmental matters tyco is involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. the ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. as of september 30, 2011, tyco concluded that it was probable that it would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $38 million to $86 million. as of september 30, 2011, tyco concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $60 million, of which $18 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $42 million is included in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet. in view of the company's financial position and reserves for environmental matters, the company believes that any potential payments of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. asbestos matters the company and certain of its subsidiaries along with numerous other companies are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third-parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. while the company has observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims, a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed by the courts. the company's strategy has been, and continues to be, to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, where appropriate, settling suits before trial. although a large percentage of litigated suits have been dismissed, the company cannot predict the extent to which it will be successful in resolving lawsuits in the future. as of september 30, 2011, there were approximately 4,500 lawsuits pending against the company, its subsidiaries or entities for which the company has assumed responsibility. each lawsuit typically includes several claims, and the company has determined that there were approximately 5,600 claims outstanding as of 26 table of contents september 30, 2011, which reflects the company's current estimate of the number of viable claims made against it, its affiliates or entities for which it has assumed responsibility in connection with acquisitions or divestitures. this amount includes adjustments for claims that are not actively being prosecuted, identify incorrect defendants or are duplicative of other actions. for a detailed discussion of asbestos-related matters, see note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. income tax matters in connection with the 2007 spin-offs of covidien and te connectivity from tyco, tyco entered into a tax sharing agreement that governs the rights and obligations of each party with respect to certain pre-2007 separation income tax liabilities. more specifically, tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of shared income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. consistent with the sharing provisions of the tax sharing agreement, tyco had a net receivable from covidien and te connectivity of $89 million and $114 million as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively. in addition, as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, the company had recorded $387 million and $398 million, respectively, in other liabilities, and $49 million and $156 million, respectively, in accrued and other current liabilities. during 2011, the company made a net cash payment of $113 million to covidien and te connectivity related to the resolution of certain audit and pre-separation tax matters. tyco and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. the company is reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. amounts related to these tax adjustments and other tax contingencies and related interest have been assessed as uncertain income tax positions and recorded as appropriate. for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tyco's income taxes, see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. compliance matters as previously reported in the company's periodic filings, the company has received and responded to various allegations and other information that certain improper payments were made by the company's subsidiaries and agents in recent years. for example, two subsidiaries in the company's flow control business in italy have been charged, along with numerous other parties, in connection with the milan public prosecutor's investigation into allegedly improper payments made to certain italian entities. during the fourth quarter of 2011, the company's subsidiaries were acquitted of these charges. the company reported to the doj and the sec the investigative steps and remedial measures that it has taken in response to these and other allegations and its internal investigations. in 2005, the company informed the doj and the sec that it retained outside counsel to perform a company-wide baseline review of its policies, controls and practices with respect to compliance with the fcpa, and that it would continue to investigate and make periodic progress reports to these agencies. the company has and will continue to communicate with the doj and sec to provide updates on the baseline review and follow-up investigations, including, as appropriate, briefings concerning additional instances of potential improper conduct identified by the company in the course of its ongoing compliance activities. the baseline review, which has been completed, has revealed that some business practices may not comply with tyco and fcpa requirements, and in february 2010, the company initiated discussions with the doj and sec aimed at resolving these matters, which remain ongoing. although the company has recorded its best estimate of potential loss related to this matter, it is 27 table of contents possible that this estimate may differ from the ultimate loss determined in connection with the resolution of this matter, as the company may be required to pay material fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, consent to the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which may have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. covidien and te connectivity agreed, in connection with the 2007 separation, to cooperate with the company in its responses regarding these matters. any judgment required to be paid or settlement or other cost incurred by the company in connection with the fcpa investigation matters would be subject to the liability sharing provisions of the separation and distribution agreement, which assigned liabilities primarily related to the former healthcare and electronics businesses of the company to covidien and te connectivity, respectively, and provides that the company will retain liabilities primarily related to its continuing operations. any liabilities not primarily related to a particular segment will be shared equally among the company, covidien and te connectivity. as previously disclosed, in early 2007 certain former subsidiaries in the company's flow control business were charged, prior to their divestiture, by the german federal cartel office ("fco") with engaging in anti-competitive practices, in particular with regard to its hydrant, valve, street box and fittings business. the company investigated this matter and determined that the conduct may have violated german competition law. the company is cooperating with the fco in its ongoing investigation of this violation. the company has recorded its best estimate of potential loss related to this matter. however, it is possible that this estimate may differ from the ultimate loss determined in connection with the resolution of this matter, as the company may be required to pay material fines, suffer penalties or incur settlements in amounts that may have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. during the fourth quarter of 2011, the company has concluded that its best estimate of probable loss for these compliance matters is $34 million in the aggregate, which the company recorded as a liability in accrued and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet for the year ended september 30, 2011. due to the sharing provisions in the separation and distribution agreement, the company has also recorded receivables from covidien and te connectivity related to these compliance matters in other current assets in the company's consolidated balance sheet as of september 30, 2011. erisa partial withdrawal liability assessment and demand on june 8, 2007, simplexgrinnell received a notice alleging that it had partially withdrawn from the national automatic sprinkler industry pension fund (the "fund"). under title iv of erisa, if the fund can prove that an employer completely or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan such as the fund, the employer is liable for withdrawal liability equal to its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested benefits. the alleged withdrawal results from a 1994 labor dispute between grinnell fire protection systems, simplexgrinnell's predecessor, and road sprinkler fitters local union no. 669. erisa requires that payment of withdrawal liability be made in full or in quarterly installments commencing upon receipt of a liability assessment from the plan. a plan's assessment of withdrawal liability generally may be challenged only in arbitration, and erisa requires that quarterly payments must continue to be made during the pendency of the arbitration. if the employer prevails in arbitration (and any subsequent appeals), its quarterly withdrawal liability payments are refunded with interest. the fund's total withdrawal liability assessment against simplexgrinnell is approximately $25 million. the quarterly withdrawal liability payments are $1.1 million, $18.7 million of which has been cumulatively paid through september 30, 2011. while the ultimate outcome is uncertain, simplexgrinnell believes that it has strong arguments that no withdrawal liability is owed to the fund, 28 table of contents and it plans to vigorously defend against the fund's withdrawal liability assessment. the matter is currently in arbitration. the company has made no provision for this contingency and believes that its quarterly payments are recoverable. broadview security contingency on may 14, 2010, the company acquired broadview security, which is a business that was formerly owned by the brink's company. under the coal industry retiree health benefit act of 1992, as amended (the "coal act"), the brink's company and its majority-owned subsidiaries at july 20, 1992 (including certain legal entities acquired in the broadview security acquisition) are jointly and severally liable with certain of the brink's company's other current and former subsidiaries for health care coverage obligations provided for by the coal act. a voluntary employees' beneficiary associate ("veba") trust has been established by the brink's company to pay for these liabilities, although the trust may have insufficient funds to satisfy all future obligations. at the time of its spin-off from the brink's company, broadview security entered into an agreement in which the brink's company agreed to indemnify it for any and all liabilities and expenses related to the brink's company's former coal operations, including any health care coverage obligations. the brink's company has agreed that this indemnification survives the company's acquisition of broadview security. the company has evaluated its potential liability under the coal act as a contingency in light of all known facts, including the funding of the veba, and indemnification provided by the brinks company. the company has concluded that no accrual is necessary due to the existence of the indemnification and its belief that the brink's company and veba will be able to satisfy all future obligations under the coal act. adt dealer litigation as previously reported, in 2002, the sec's division of enforcement conducted an investigation related to past accounting practices for dealer connect fees that adt had charged to its authorized dealers upon purchasing customer accounts. the investigation related to accounting practices employed by the company's former management, which were discontinued in 2003. although the company settled with the sec in 2006, a number of former dealers and related parties have filed lawsuits against the company in the united states and in other countries, including a class action lawsuit filed in the district court of arapahoe county, colorado, alleging breach of contract and other claims related to adt's decision to terminate certain authorized dealers in 2002 and 2003. in february 2010, the court granted a directed verdict in adt's favor dismissing a number of the plaintiffs' key claims. upon appeal, the colorado court of appeals affirmed the verdict in adt's favor in october 2011. while it is not possible at this time to predict the final outcome of the colorado lawsuit or other lawsuits stemming from dealer terminations, the company does not believe these claims will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. other matters in addition to the foregoing, the company is subject to claims and suits, including from time to time, contractual disputes and product and general liability claims, incidental to present and former operations, acquisitions and dispositions. with respect to many of these claims, the company either self-insures or maintains insurance through third-parties, with varying deductibles. while the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, the company believes that the resolution of any such proceedings, whether the underlying claims are covered by insurance or not, will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows beyond amounts recorded for such matters. item 4. reserved none. 29 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the number of registered holders of tyco's common shares as of november 7, 2011 was 25,945. tyco common shares are listed and traded on the nyse under the symbol "tyc." the following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of tyco common shares as reported by the nyse, and the dividends declared on tyco common shares, for the quarterly periods presented below. year ended september 30, 2011 year ended september 24, 2010 market price range market price range dividends declared per common share (1) dividends declared per common share (1) quarter high low high low first $ 42.31 $ 36.40 $ 0.24 $ 37.08 $ 33.32 $ 0.22 second 47.33 41.44 0.25 38.19 33.95 0.19 third 52.33 44.45 0.25 40.54 35.00 0.21 fourth 50.09 37.81 0.25 39.79 34.43 0.24 $ 0.99 $ 0.86 (1) all dividends declared through the first quarter of fiscal 2011 were denominated in swiss francs. beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 all dividends declared were denominated in u.s. dollars. amounts for 2010 and the first quarter of fiscal 2011 in the table above represent the u.s. dollar equivalent of swiss francs converted at the u.s. dollar/swiss franc exchange rate shortly before the payment dates. dividends proposed by tyco's board of directors are subject to shareholder approval. shareholders approved annual dividends of chf 0.90 and $1.00 at annual meetings held on march 10, 2010, and march 9, 2011, respectively. at the time of approval, in march 2010, the equivalent u.s. dollar amount of the chf 0.90 dividend was $0.84. dividend policy prior to may 2011, the company paid dividends in the form of a return of share capital from the company's registered share capital. these payments were made free of swiss withholding taxes. the company now makes dividend payments from its contributed surplus equity position in its swiss statutory accounts. these payments are also made free of swiss withholding taxes. unlike payments made in the form of a reduction to registered share capital, which are required to be denominated in swiss francs and converted to u.s. dollars at the time of payment, payments from the contributed surplus account may effectively be denominated in u.s. dollars. under swiss law, the authority to declare dividends is vested in the company's shareholders. we expect to obtain shareholder approval of the annual dividend amount out of contributed surplus each year at our annual general meeting, and we expect to distribute the approved dividend amount in four quarterly installments, on dates determined by our board of directors. the timing, declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common shares will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, the capital requirements of our businesses, industry practice and any other relevant factors. future dividends will be proposed by our board of directors and will require shareholder approval. 30 table of contents performance graph set forth below is a graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on tyco's common shares against the cumulative return on the s&amp;p 500 index and the s&amp;p 500 industrials index, assuming investment of $100 on september 29, 2006, including the reinvestment of dividends. the graph shows the cumulative total return as of the fiscal years ended september 28, 2007, september 26, 2008, september 25, 2009, september 24, 2010 and september 30, 2011. comparison of cumulative five year total return total return to shareholders (includes reinvestment of dividends) annual return percentage years ended company/index 9/07 9/08 9/09 9/10 9/11 tyco international ltd. 2.96 (17.08 ) (3.58 ) 16.16 8.06 s&amp;p 500 index 16.44 (18.85 ) (11.56 ) 12.23 0.49 s&amp;p 500 industrials 20.96 (15.16 ) (8.00 ) 14.01 4.02 9/06 9/07 9/08 9/09 9/10 9/11 tyco international ltd. $ 100 $ 102.96 $ 85.38 $ 82.32 $ 95.62 $ 103.33 s&amp;p 500 index 100 116.44 94.49 83.56 93.78 94.23 s&amp;p 500 industrials 100 120.96 102.63 94.41 107.64 111.96 31 table of contents equity compensation plan information the following table provides information as of september 30, 2011 with respect to tyco's common shares issuable under its equity compensation plans: equity compensation plan plan category number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options (a) weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options (b) number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) equity compensation plans approved by shareholders: 2004 stock and incentive plan (1) 26,334,840 $ 41.48 18,541,069 ltip i plan (2) 1,131,947 41.55 espp (3) 2,919,845 27,466,787 21,460,914 equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders: ltip ii plan (4) 990,103 32.98 saye (5) 84,986 34.41 broadview security plans (6) 92,380 33.54 1,167,469 total 28,634,256 21,460,914 (1) the tyco international ltd. 2004 stock and incentive plan ("2004 plan") provides for the award of stock options, restricted stock units, performance share units and other equity and equity-based awards to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amounts shown in column (a) include, in addition to 20,566,093 shares that may be issued upon the exercise of stock options, 229,837 deferred stock units ("dsu") and dividend equivalents earned on such dsus, 3,303,312 shares that may be issued upon the vesting of restricted stock units, and 2,235,598 shares that may be issued upon the vesting of performance share units ("psu"), assuming a target payout for psus. there are currently no restricted share awards outstanding under the 2004 plan. amount in column (c) includes the aggregate shares available under the tyco international ltd. long term incentive plan ("ltip i"), ltip ii and the 2004 plan, as the shares formerly available under the ltip i and ltip ii have been rolled into the 2004 plan. (2) the ltip i allowed for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to board members, officers and non-officer employees. amount in column (a) includes 263,588 shares to be issued upon the exercise of stock options and 868,359 dsu grants and dividend equivalents earned on such dsus. no additional grants may be made under the ltip i, the ltip ii, or any acquired plans. (3) shares available for future issuance under the tyco employee stock purchase plan ("espp"), which represents the number of remaining shares registered for issuance under this plan. all of the shares delivered to participants under the espp were purchased in the open market. the espp was suspended indefinitely during the fourth quarter of 2009. (4) under the terms of the 2004 stock and incentive plan adopted in march 2004, no additional options, equity or equity-based grants will be made to board members, officers and non-officer 32 table of contents employees under the ltip or the ltip ii. ltip ii allowed for the grant of stock options and other equity or equity-based grants to employees who are not officers of tyco. under this plan, non-officer employees or former employees of tyco or a subsidiary could receive: (i) options to purchase tyco common shares; (ii) stock appreciation rights; (iii) awards payable in cash, common shares, other securities or other property, based on the achievement of performance goals; (iv) dividend equivalents, consisting of a right to receive payments equivalent to dividends declared on tyco common shares; and (v) other stock-based awards as determined by the compensation and human resources committee ("committee"). the exercise price of options and stock appreciation rights would generally be fair market value on the date of grant, but could be lower in certain circumstances. no individual could receive awards for more than 12,000,000 shares (or 3,000,000 shares on a post-reverse stock split basis) in any calendar year. terms and conditions of awards were determined by the committee. awards could be deferred, and could be payable in any form the committee determined, including cash, tyco common shares, other securities or other property. the committee may modify awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events, including a change of control. the shares granted under the ltip ii will be issued at vesting under the 2004 stock and incentive plan. (5) the tyco international ltd. united kingdom ("uk") savings related share option plan ("saye") is a uk inland revenue approved plan for uk employees pursuant to which employees were granted options to purchase shares at the end of three years of service at a 15% discount off of the market price at time of grant. employees made monthly contributions that were, at the election of the employee, used for the purchase price of shares or the contribution could have been returned to the employee. the total amount of shares that may have been purchased at the end of the three years of service was equal to the total of the monthly contributions, plus a tax-free bonus amount equal to a multiple of the aggregate amount of monthly contributions, divided by the option price. an option will generally be exercisable only during the period of six months following the three-year period. the plan was administered by the company's international benefits oversight committee, appointed by the committee. the international benefits oversight committee, among other things, determined when to grant options and set the option price. the saye plan was approved on november 3, 1999 for a ten year period and has expired according to its terms on november 3, 2009. the international benefits oversight committee has not approved any additional grants since the last annual grant on october 9, 2008 and it has not applied for approval of a replacement for the saye plan at this time. (6) in connection with the acquisition of broadview security in may 2010, options outstanding under the brink's home security holdings, inc. 2008 equity incentive plan ("2008 equity plan") and the brink's home security holdings, inc. non-employee director's equity plan were converted into options to purchase tyco common shares. shares available represent the number of shares available for issuance under future awards from the 2008 equity plan, which are now available for future issuance under tyco's 2004 stock and incentive plan. 33 table of contents issuer purchases of equity securities period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under publicly announced plans or programs 6/25/11 - 7/29/11 48,660 $ 49.55 7/30/11 - 9/2/11 9/3/11 - 9/30/11 674 $ 40.58 $ 700,145,000 the transactions described in the table above represent shares acquired by the company from certain employees in order to satisfy employee tax withholding requirements in connection with the vesting of restricted shares during the quarter ended september 30, 2011. the average price paid per share is calculated by dividing the total cash paid for the shares by the total number of shares repurchased. during the quarter ended september 30, 2011, there were no common shares repurchased under the $1.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the board of directors in april 2011 ("2011 share repurchase program"). approximately $700 million remained outstanding under the 2011 share repurchase program as of september 30, 2011. 34 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of tyco. this data is derived from tyco's consolidated financial statements for the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009, september 26, 2008 and september 28, 2007, respectively. tyco has a 52 or 53-week fiscal year that ends on the last friday in september. fiscal years 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were all 52-week years, while fiscal 2011 was a 53-week year. during the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we entered into an agreement to sell our european water business. the business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and therefore has been included in discontinued operations in all periods presented below. in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, we completed the spin-offs of covidien and te connectivity, formerly our healthcare and electronics businesses, respectively. these businesses are classified as discontinued operations in fiscal 2007. this selected financial data should be read in conjunction with tyco's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report as well as the section of this annual report titled item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 2011 2010 2009 (1) 2008 2007 (2)(3) consolidated statements of operations data: net revenue $ 17,355 $ 17,016 $ 16,882 $ 19,733 $ 18,055 income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to tyco common shareholders 1,565 1,125 (1,845 ) 1,062 (2,556 ) net income (loss) attributable to tyco common shareholders 1,733 1,132 (1,798 ) 1,553 (1,742 ) basic earnings per share attributable to tyco common shareholders: income (loss) from continuing operations 3.31 2.32 (3.90 ) 2.19 (5.16 ) net income (loss) 3.66 2.33 (3.80 ) 3.21 (3.52 ) diluted earnings per share attributable to tyco common shareholders: income (loss) from continuing operations 3.27 2.31 (3.90 ) 2.18 (5.16 ) net income (loss) 3.62 2.32 (3.80 ) 3.19 (3.52 ) cash dividends per share 0.99 0.86 0.84 0.65 1.60 consolidated balance sheet data (end of year): total assets $ 26,777 $ 27,128 $ 25,553 $ 28,804 $ 32,815 long-term debt 4,146 3,652 4,029 3,709 4,080 total tyco shareholders' equity 14,182 14,084 12,941 15,494 15,624 (1) loss from continuing operations attributable to tyco common shareholders for the year ended september 25, 2009 includes goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $2.7 billion, which was recorded during the quarter ended march 27, 2009. (2) loss from continuing operations attributable to tyco common shareholders for the year ended september 28, 2007 includes a class action settlement charge, net of $2.9 billion. (3) net income (loss) attributable to tyco common shareholders for 2007 includes income from discontinued operations of $814 million primarily related to covidien and te connectivity. 35 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations the following discussion and analysis of the company's financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the selected financial data and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. the company's actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those under the headings "risk factors" and "forward-looking information." introduction the consolidated financial statements include the consolidated results of tyco international ltd., a company organized under the laws of switzerland, and its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as "we", the "company" or "tyco"). the financial statements have been prepared in united states dollars ("usd"), in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states ("gaap"). during the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we realigned our safety products segment between our adt worldwide and fire protection segments to create two new segments: tyco security solutions and tyco fire protection. tyco security solutions consists of the former adt worldwide segment as well as the portion of the former safety products segment that manufactures security products including intrusion, security, access control and video management systems. tyco fire protection consists of the former fire protection services segment as well as a number of businesses from the former safety products segment including the fire suppression, fire detection and life safety products businesses. in addition, various businesses were realigned between tyco security solutions and tyco fire protection. as a result of this realignment, as well as the sale of a majority interest in our electrical and metal products business further described below, we began operating in the following business segments: tyco security solutions designs, sells, installs, services and monitors electronic security, productivity and lifestyle enhancement systems for residential, commercial, industrial and governmental customers. in addition, tyco security solutions designs, manufactures and sells security products including intrusion, security, access control, electronic article surveillance and video management systems. tyco fire protection designs, manufactures, sells, installs and services fire detection and fire suppression systems and building and life safety products for commercial, industrial and governmental customers. tyco flow control designs, manufactures, sells and services valves, pipes, fittings, valve automation and heat tracing products for general process, energy and mining markets as well as the water and wastewater markets. we also provide general corporate services to our segments and these costs are reported as corporate and other. overview net revenue for the year ended september 30, 2011 increased by $339 million, or 2.0%, to $17.4 billion as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. net revenue increased in fiscal 2011 despite the sale of our majority interest in the electrical and metal products business, which contributed $1.4 billion of revenue during the year ended september 24, 2010 and $347 million during the year 36 table of contents ended september 30, 2011. net revenue increased across all of our segments mainly attributable to strength in our tyco security solutions and tyco fire protection segments and to a lesser extent our tyco flow control segment. favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates also impacted net revenue by $503 million, or 3.0%. in addition, because the company's fiscal year ends on the last friday in september, fiscal 2011 consisted of 53 weeks, as compared to 52 weeks in fiscal 2010 and 2009. as a result, fiscal year 2011 includes an estimated $143 million, or 0.8%, of revenue from the additional week. service revenue, which is primarily recurring in nature, represented approximately 45% of our overall revenue for the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to 41% and 40% for 2010 and 2009, respectively. service revenue as a percentage of net revenue increased due to the divestiture of our electrical and metal products business, which did not have a significant service component as well as due to strength in our tyco security solutions and tyco fire protection businesses. service revenues are principally derived from our tyco security solutions and tyco fire protection businesses, and represent a consistent source of revenue from monitoring and maintenance services under contractual agreements. recurring revenue in our tyco security solutions business grew to approximately 57% of tyco security solutions' total revenue for the year ended september 30, 2011 which is primarily due to the integration of broadview security, compared to approximately 56% for the year ended september 24, 2010, and 52% for the year ended september 25, 2009. in the tyco fire protection business, service revenue remained steady as a percentage of tyco fire protection's total revenue at 38% in 2011 and 2010, as compared to 36% in 2009. for the year ended september 30, 2011, non-service revenue in tyco security solutions and tyco fire protection improved slightly compared to the prior annual periods, due to strength in systems installation and related products and product sales in tyco security solutions and product sales in tyco fire protection. these improvements were partially offset by continued weakness in our tyco flow control segment's water and environmental systems business. operating income for the year ended september 30, 2011 increased $521 million, or 33%, to $2.1 billion, as compared to operating income of $1.6 billion for the year ended september 24, 2010. operating income for the year ended september 30, 2011 includes a net gain on divestitures of $230 million primarily related to the sale of a majority interest in our electrical and metal products business compared to a net gain on divestitures of $40 million for the year ended september 24, 2010. operating income was also favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $60 million, or 3.8%. the increase in operating income in 2011 also reflects strong growth in our tyco security solutions business. operating income was favorably impacted for the year ended september 30, 2011 due to lower restructuring and asset impairment charges of $87 million as compared to $145 million for the year ended september 24, 2010. operating income for the year ended september 30, 2011 included acquisition and integration costs of $39 million as compared to $35 million for the year ended september 24, 2010. our cash balance was $1.4 billion and $1.8 billion as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively. we generated approximately $2.4 billion of cash from operating activities and utilized $1.3 billion of cash in investing activities and $1.5 billion of cash in financing activities during the year ended september 30, 2011. during the year ended september 30, 2011, approximately $1.0 billion of cash was generated from divestitures, primarily related to $713 million for the sale of the majority interest in our electrical and metal products business and $264 million for the sale of our european water business, which was presented in net cash provided by (used in) discontinued investing activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows. during the year ended september 30, 2011, uses of cash primarily included $1.3 billion to repurchase our common shares, $788 million of capital expenditures, $656 million for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, $614 million to purchase customer contracts in our tyco security solutions segment and $458 million to pay cash dividends. 37 table of contents recent transactions on september 19, 2011, the company announced that its board of directors approved a plan to separate the company into three separate, publicly traded companies consisting of the company's north american residential security business, its flow control business, and its commercial fire and security business. the 2012 separation is expected to be completed by the end of the third calendar quarter of 2012 through a tax-free pro rata distribution of all of the equity interest in the flow control and north american residential security business. completion of the proposed separation is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by the tyco board of directors and shareholders, receipt of tax opinions and rulings and the filing and effectiveness of registration statements with the sec. the separation will also be subject to the completion of any necessary financing. during fiscal 2011, we made a number of strategic investments within our three core businesses. on april 29, 2011, our tyco security solutions segment completed the acquisition of signature security group for $184 million, net of cash acquired of $2 million. signature security group is an electronic security company operating in australia and new zealand primarily in small business and residential markets. on june 29, 2011, the company's flow control segment finalized the acquisition of a 75% equity interest in privately-held kef holdings ltd. ("kef"), a vertically integrated valve manufacturer in the middle east, for approximately $295 million, net of cash acquired of $1 million. additionally, in connection with the acquisition we acquired $64 million of debt which was substantially paid as of september 30, 2011. on september 1, 2011, our fire protection segment completed the acquisition of chemguard inc. ("chemguard") for approximately $130 million, net of cash acquired of $1 million. chemguard is a provider of firefighting foam concentrates and equipment, foam systems, services and specialty chemicals. on september 15, 2011, the company reached an agreement to acquire visonic ltd. ("visonic"), a global developer and manufacturer of electronic security systems and components, for approximately $100 million in cash. the transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of fiscal 2012. following the close of the transaction, the company intends to combine visonic with the company's tyco security solutions segment. see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on november 9, 2010, we announced that we entered into an investment agreement (the "agreement") to sell a majority interest in our electrical and metal products business to an affiliate of the private equity firm clayton, dubilier &amp; rice, llc (the "investor"). we formed a newly incorporated holding company, atkore international group inc. ("atkore"), to hold our electrical and metal products business. on december 22, 2010, the transaction closed and the investor acquired shares of a newly-created class of cumulative convertible preferred stock of atkore (the "preferred stock"). the preferred stock initially represented 51% of the outstanding capital stock (on an as-converted basis) of atkore. in connection with the closing, we received cash proceeds of approximately $713 million and recorded a gain of $259 million during the first quarter of 2011. during the year ended september 30, 2011, we recorded working capital adjustments of $11 million that reduced the gain on disposal. the gain on disposal is recorded within restructuring, asset impairments and divestiture (gains) charges, net in our consolidated statement of operations. on september 30, 2010, we sold our water business in europe, which was part of our tyco flow control segment. the business met the discontinued operations criteria and has been included in discontinued operations for all periods presented. the sale was completed for approximately $264 million in cash proceeds, net of $7 million of cash divested on sale, and a pre-tax gain of $172 million, which was largely exempt from tax. the gain was recorded in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the company's consolidated statement of operations. references to the segment data are to the company's continuing operations. as discussed above, the company realigned certain business operations during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and 38 table of contents accordingly has recast prior period segment amounts. see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. operating results september 30, 2011 (1) september 24, 2010 (1) september 25, 2009 (1) revenue from product sales $ 9,601 $ 9,990 $ 10,134 service revenue 7,754 7,026 6,748 net revenue $ 17,355 $ 17,016 $ 16,882 operating income (loss) $ 2,119 $ 1,598 $ (1,506 ) interest income 34 31 44 interest expense (244 ) (284 ) (301 ) other expense, net (16 ) (75 ) (7 ) income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 1,893 1,270 (1,770 ) income tax expense (326 ) (138 ) (71 ) income (loss) from continuing operations 1,567 1,132 (1,841 ) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 168 7 47 net income (loss) $ 1,735 $ 1,139 $ (1,794 ) less: noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries net (loss) income 2 7 4 net income (loss) attributable to tyco common shareholders $ 1,733 $ 1,132 $ (1,798 ) (1) on december 22, 2010, we sold a majority interest in our electrical and metal products business. through closing on december 22, 2010, net revenue and operating income for this business were $347 million and $7 million, respectively, for the year ended september 30, 2011. net revenue was $1.4 billion for both the year ended september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009. operating income was $100 million for the year ended september 24, 2010 and operating loss was $938 million for the year ended september 25, 2009. there is no annual discussion relating to the electrical and metal products business. this information has been provided in order to reconcile to the above net revenue and operating income for the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010, and september 25, 2009. segment results the segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each of our segments included in continuing operations. 39 table of contents tyco security solutions net revenue net revenue for tyco security solutions for the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009 were as follows ($ in millions): 2011 2010 2009 service revenue recurring $ 4,907 $ 4,295 $ 3,861 non-recurring 729 709 951 total service revenue 5,636 5,004 4,812 (1) revenue from product sales (non-recurring) system installation and related products 2,584 2,377 2,255 security products 406 353 308 total revenue from product sales 2,990 2,730 2,563 (1) net revenue $ 8,626 $ 7,734 $ 7,375 (1) as discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, revenue related to the sale of electronic tags and labels utilized in retailer anti-theft systems is classified as revenue from product sales. in reporting periods prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2010, revenue related to the sale of electronic tags and labels utilized in retailer anti-theft systems was misclassified as service revenue. such item had no effect on net revenue, operating income (loss), net income (loss) and cash flows. no changes have been made to previously filed financial statements or in the comparative amounts presented herein, as the effect in prior periods is not material. revenue related to the sale of such electronic tags and labels reflected as service revenue was $286 million in 2009 and related cost of services was $176 million in 2009. net revenue for tyco security solutions of $8.6 billion increased by $892 million, or 11.5%, during the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. net revenue was favorably impacted by the estimated net impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $235 million, or 3.0%, substantially all of which was related to the acquisition of broadview security in may 2010, and to a lesser extent, signature security group in april 2011, offset by divested revenue from our french security business which was sold in march 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates also favorably impacted net revenue by $192 million, or 2.5%. in addition, an estimated $38 million, or 0.5%, of revenue is attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2011, all of which is non-recurring. the remaining increase in net revenue was primarily due to incremental account growth, net of attrition, in the recurring revenue businesses in north america and rest of world ("row"), and strength in our non-recurring businesses related to construction project activity and security system upgrades in north america and retail store expansion activity in row. net revenue for tyco security solutions of $7.7 billion increased by $359 million, or 4.9%, during the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to september 25, 2009. net revenue was favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $239 million, or 3.2%. net revenue was also favorably impacted by the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $72 million, or 1.0%, which was primarily the result of $193 million in net revenue estimated to be contributed by the broadview security acquisition partially offset by $109 million of divested revenue relating to our french security business. 40 table of contents recurring net revenue recurring revenue is generated from contractual monitoring and maintenance agreements that are long-term in nature, and is primarily driven by the addition or loss of customer accounts and increases or decreases in average revenue per customer. for the years ended september 30, 2011 september 24, 2010 september 25, 2009 number of customer accounts (1) 9.0 million 8.9 million 7.4 million trailing 52 week attrition (1) (2) 12.6% 12.8% 13.3% average monthly revenue per customer (1) $45.35 $44.62 $45.81 (1) the number of customer accounts, attrition rates and average revenue per customer for all periods exclude the impact of divestitures. (2) trailing 52 week attrition rates exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. recurring revenue increased by $612 million, or 14.2%, to approximately $4.9 billion during the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. recurring net revenue was favorably impacted by the estimated impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $322 million, or 7.5%, relating to our acquisition of broadview security in may 2010, and to a lesser extent the acquisition of signature security group in april 2011. changes in foreign currency exchange rates also favorably impacted recurring revenue by $84 million, or 2.0%. customer accounts grew during the year ended september 30, 2011 by approximately 0.1 million, or 1.1%, to a total of 9.0 million accounts. the increase in average monthly revenue per customer of $0.73 from the year ended september 24, 2010 to the year ended september 30, 2011 was partially due to favorable foreign exchange rates along with incremental account growth, net of attrition, in the north america and row regions. recurring revenue increased by $434 million, or 11.2%, to approximately $4.3 billion, during the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009, as a result of growth in customer accounts of approximately 1.5 million, or 20.3%, to a total of approximately 8.9 million accounts as of september 24, 2010. approximately 1.4 million customer accounts were acquired on may 14, 2010 in connection with the broadview security acquisition. the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted recurring revenue by $149 million, or 3.9%, and $116 million, or 3.0%, respectively, in 2010. non-recurring net revenue non-recurring revenue is generated from product sales (including sales and installation of electronic security and products related to retailer anti-theft systems, as well as other life safety systems) and from services such as the provisioning of armored guards and one-time repair, security system upgrades or inspection jobs. non-recurring net revenue increased by $280 million, or 8.1%, to $3.7 billion for the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted non-recurring net revenue by $108 million, or 3.1%. in addition, an estimated $38 million, or 1.1%, of non-recurring revenue is attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2011. these increases were partially offset by an unfavorable net impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $89 million or 2.6%, primarily relating to the sale of our french security business in march 2010. the remaining increase was primarily due to strength in commercial end markets with new retail store expansion activity in row and increased demand within north america for construction projects and security systems upgrades. 41 table of contents non-recurring revenue declined by $75 million, or 2.1%, to approximately $3.4 billion during the year ended september 24, 2010, as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009, due to lower sales volume primarily as the result of weakness in the commercial end market, which declined at a slower rate than the same period in the prior year. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted systems installation, product sales and other service revenue by $122 million, or 3.5%, while the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures resulted in an unfavorable impact of $76 million, or 2.2%. revenue by geography north american revenue consists of residential and small business, primarily a recurring revenue business, and commercial, primarily a non-recurring revenue business. europe, middle east and africa ("emea") and row revenue are primarily commercial. net revenue by geography for tyco security solutions was as follows ($in millions): 2011 2010 2009 north america $ 5,102 $ 4,436 $ 4,185 europe, middle east and africa 1,726 1,738 1,875 rest of world 1,392 1,207 1,007 tyco security products (1) 406 353 308 net revenue $ 8,626 $ 7,734 $ 7,375 (1) tyco security products is managed as a global business. north america net revenue in north america increased by $666 million, or 15.0%, for the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010, primarily as a result of the acquisition of broadview security. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted north american revenue by $25 million, or 0.6%. residential and small business net revenue increased by 19.9% compared to the year ended september 24, 2010, primarily due to the acquisition of broadview security. commercial net revenue increased by 8.2%, as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010, primarily as a result of an increase in construction projects and security system upgrades in the commercial end markets which was partially offset by softness in the retail market. net revenue in north america increased by $251 million, or 6.0%, for the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009, primarily as the result of the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, which favorably impacted net revenue by an estimated $193 million, or 4.6%, as the result of the acquisition of broadview security. changes in foreign currency exchange rates also favorably impacted net revenue by $48 million, or 1.1%. residential and small business net revenue increased by 15.3% compared to the year ended september 25, 2010, primarily due to the acquisition of broadview security. commercial net revenue decreased by 4.8% due to the decline in systems installation and product sales as the result of weakness in the commercial market, although the rate of decline was slower than the same period in the prior year. europe, middle east, and africa net revenue in emea decreased by $12 million, or 0.7%, for the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010, primarily due to the unfavorable net impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $138 million, or 7.9%, resulting from the sale of certain businesses, including the french security business in march 2010, and several smaller businesses in europe over the course of fiscal 2010. the decrease was partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency 42 table of contents exchange rates of $70 million, or 4.0%. stronger systems installation across continental europe also favorably increased net revenue. net revenue in emea decreased by $137 million, or 7.3%, for the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009, as favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $60 million, or 3.2%, were more than offset by a decline in systems installation and other service revenue as a result of weakness in the commercial end market, although the rate of decline was slower than the same period in the prior year. additionally, emea net revenue was unfavorably impacted by $120 million, or 6.4%, due to the impact of divestitures. rest of world net revenue in row increased by $185 million, or 15.3%, for the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted net revenue by $83 million, or 6.9%. the remaining increase in net revenue in row was primarily attributable to retail store expansion, increases in the customer account bases and increased systems installation activity in the asia pacific and latin america regions. net revenue in row increased by $200 million, or 19.9%, for the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009, primarily due to recurring revenue growth in both latin american and asia pacific regions resulting from customer account growth. the asia-pacific region experienced an increase in system installation, products sales and other service revenue which was partially offset by a decrease in the latin american region due to a slowdown in commercial and retailer end markets. net revenue in the rest of world geographies was also favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $111 million, or 11.0%. tyco security products net revenue in tyco security products increased by $53 million, or 15.0%, for the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted net revenue by $14 million, or 4.0%. the remaining increase in net revenue was primarily due to growth across multiple product lines globally. net revenue in tyco security products increased by $45 million, or 14.6%, for the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted net revenue by $20 million, or 6.5%. additionally, net revenue increased due to higher volume primarily related to the introduction of several new products. operating income and operating margin operating income and operating margin for tyco security solutions were as follows ($ in millions): 2011 2010 2009 operating income $ 1,361 $ 1,090 $ (514 ) operating margin 15.8 % 14.1 % % (1) (1) certain operating margins and percentages have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. 43 table of contents operating income of $1.4 billion increased by $271 million, or 24.9%, in the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. operating income and operating margin for the year ended september 30, 2011 continued to be favorably impacted by higher sales volume, efficiencies gained through restructuring actions taken in prior years and other cost containment activities. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted operating income by $23 million, or 2.1%. included in operating income for the year ended september 30, 2011 was $25 million of restructuring charges, net as compared to $62 million of restructuring charges, net for the year ended september 24, 2010. in addition, included in operating income for the year ended september 30, 2011 is $33 million of acquisition and integration costs primarily related to the acquisition of broadview security and signature security group, as compared to $32 million of acquisition and integration costs during the year ended september 24, 2010. included in the operating income for the prior year comparable period is a $45 million gain on divestitures, net primarily related to the sale of our french security business and a curtailment gain of $12 million, which was recognized upon the freezing of certain defined benefit plans in the united kingdom, as compared to the absence of similar charges for the year ended september 30, 2011. operating income of $1.1 billion increased by $1.6 billion in the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009. operating income for the year ended september 25, 2009 was negatively affected by goodwill impairment charges of $1.3 billion recorded at our adt emea, access controls and video systems ("acvs") and sensormatic retail solutions reporting units and intangible asset impairment charges of $64 million. operating income for the year ended september 24, 2010 was positively impacted by the shift to higher margin recurring revenue. additionally, 2010 operating income was favorably impacted by the net impact of savings realized through previous restructuring and cost containment actions, and a curtailment gain of $12 million recognized when certain defined benefit pension plans were frozen in the united kingdom. these increases were partially offset by an increase in the amortization of intangible assets primarily relating to the broadview security acquisition. during the year ended september 24, 2010, $62 million of net restructuring charges were incurred, of which $14 million related to restructuring actions associated with the acquisition of broadview security, as compared to $118 million of restructuring charges, net during the year ended september 25, 2009. additionally, management estimated that $2 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions was incurred during the year ended september 25, 2009. fiscal 2010 also included a $45 million gain on divestitures, net primarily related to the sale of our french security business, and $32 million of acquisition and integration costs related to the acquisition of broadview security, as compared to a $6 million loss on divestitures and nil of acquisition costs during fiscal 2009. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted operating income by $33 million, or 6.4%. 44 table of contents tyco fire protection net revenue net revenue for tyco fire protection for the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009 were as follows ($ in millions): 2011 2010 2009 revenue from product sales systems installation and related products $ 1,617 $ 1,621 (1) $ 1,744 (1) products 1,320 1,156 1,206 total revenue from products sales $ 2,937 $ 2,777 $ 2,950 service revenue 1,806 1,733 (1) 1,670 (1) net revenue $ 4,743 $ 4,510 $ 4,620 (1) revenue related to the sale of certain products is classified as revenue from product sales. in reporting periods prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2011, revenue related to certain systems installation products was misclassified as service revenue. the service revenue and systems installation revenue during the years ended september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009 have not been changed for this misclassification, as the effect is not material. the impact of the misclassification for the years ended september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009 would have been to decrease service revenue by $37 million and $36 million, respectively, with a corresponding increase to systems installation within revenue from product sales. if the revenue from the sale of these products during the years ended september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009 were classified as product sales, service revenue would have increased $110 million, or 6.5% for the year ended september 30, 2011, and $62 million, or 3.8% for the year ended september 24, 2010. in addition, product sales would have increased by $123 million, or 4.4% for the year ended september 30, 2011, and decreased $172 million, or 5.8% for the year ended september 24, 2010. net revenue for tyco fire protection of $4.7 billion increased by $233 million, or 5.2%, during the year ended september 30, 2011, as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted net revenue by $126 million, or 2.8%. in addition, an estimated $60 million, or 1.3% of revenue is attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2011, while the deconsolidation of a joint venture in our fire protection services business as a result of adopting a new accounting standard unfavorably impacted net revenue by $72 million, or 1.6%. the remaining increase in revenue was primarily driven by increased volume in product sales as a result of generally improved end-market demand, implementation of pricing actions to offset commodity inflationary pressures, increased services revenue as a result of continued focus on driving recurring revenue and continued emerging markets expansion, partially offset by a decline in systems installation revenue as a result of project selectivity across all regions. net revenue for tyco fire protection decreased $110 million, or 2.4%, during the year ended september 24, 2010 compared to the year ended september 25, 2009. net revenue was unfavorably impacted by acquisitions and divestitures of $37 million, or 0.8%. net revenue was favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $130 million, or 2.8%. the remaining decrease was primarily due to weakness in commercial markets and project selectivity resulting from a focus on higher margin projects. 45 table of contents revenue from product sales systems installation and related products revenue from product sales includes sales and installation of fire protection and other systems. revenue from systems installation decreased by $4 million, or 0.2%, during the year ended september 30, 2011, as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted systems installation revenue by $45 million, or 2.8%, while the deconsolidation of a joint venture discussed above unfavorably impacted systems installation by $51 million, or 3.1%. revenue from systems installation was also unfavorably impacted by project selectivity resulting from a focus on higher margin projects across all regions. revenue from systems installation decreased by $123 million, or 7.1%, during the year ended september 24, 2010, as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted systems installation revenue by $56 million, or 3.2%. despite the favorable impact of foreign currency, revenue decreased due to decreased upgrade activity from customers, and project selectivity resulting from a focus on higher margin project across all regions. product sales revenue from product sales increased by $164 million, or 14.2%, during the year ended september 30, 2011, as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted product revenue by $24 million, or 2.1%. the remaining increase in net revenue was driven by increased volumes due to improved end-market demand and implementation of pricing actions to offset commodity inflationary pressures. revenue from product sales decreased by $50 million, or 4.1%, during the year ended september 24, 2010, as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009. product revenue was unfavorably impacted by the estimated impact of $32 million, or 2.7% of divestitures. this decrease was partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates which favorably impacted product revenue by $13 million, or 1.1%. the remaining decrease was due to weakness in end-market demand. service revenue service revenue consists of inspection, maintenance, monitoring and repair of fire detection, suppression and other life safety systems. service revenue increased by $73 million, or 4.2%, during the year ended september 30, 2011, as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted service revenue by $56 million, or 3.2%, while the deconsolidation of a joint venture discussed above unfavorably impacted service revenue by $21 million, or 1.2%. the remaining increase in service revenue was as a result of management's continued focus on expanding our recurring service revenue across all regions. service revenue increased by $63 million, or 3.8%, during the year ended september 24, 2010, as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted service revenue by $61 million, or 3.7%. despite the favorable impact of foreign currency, service revenue was flat due primarily to weakness in the european markets. operating income and operating margin operating income and operating margin for tyco fire protection were as follows ($ in millions): 2011 2010 2009 operating income $ 534 $ 460 $ 20 operating margin 11.3 % 10.2 % (1) (1) certain operating margins and percentages have not been presented as management believes such calculations are not meaningful. 46 table of contents operating income of $534 million increased $74 million, or 16.1%, for the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted operating income by $15 million, or 3.3%. other factors that contributed to the net increase in operating income and operating margin were increased sales volume, implementation of pricing actions to offset commodity inflationary pressures in the products business, project selectivity in the systems installation business, and cost-containment initiatives. these increases were partially offset by additional environmental remediation costs of $11 million, net of recoveries related to an isolated site, and a $5 million decrease to operating income related to the deconsolidation of a joint venture. included in operating income for the prior year comparable period is a curtailment gain of $8 million, which was recognized upon the freezing of certain defined benefit plans in the united kingdom. included in operating income for the year ended september 30, 2011 was $38 million of restructuring charges, net as compared to $42 million of restructuring charges, net for the year ended september 24, 2010. included in operating income for the year ended september 30, 2011 was $29 million of losses on divestitures as compared to $2 million of losses on divestitures for the year ended september 24, 2010. operating income increased $440 million during the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009. operating income during the year ended september 25, 2009 was negatively affected by a goodwill impairment charge of $420 million recorded at the emea fire and life safety reporting units. additionally, operating income in 2010 was favorably impacted by savings realized through cost containment actions, $14 million of favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and to a lesser extent, a curtailment gain of approximately $8 million recognized when certain defined benefit pension plans were frozen in the united kingdom. there were $42 million of restructuring charges, net and a loss on divestiture of $2 million during the year ended september 24, 2010, compared with $62 million of restructuring charges, net and nil of divestiture charges incurred in 2009. additionally, management estimates that $7 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during 2009. operating income in 2009 was also unfavorably affected by the decreased sales volume discussed above. tyco flow control net revenue net revenue for tyco flow control for the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010, and september 25, 2009 were as follows ($ in millions): 2011 2010 2009 revenue from product sales $ 3,330 $ 3,089 $ 3,232 service revenue 309 284 263 net revenue $ 3,639 $ 3,373 $ 3,495 net revenue for tyco flow control of $3.6 billion increased by $266 million, or 7.9%, during the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. the increase in revenue was primarily due to favorable impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $183 million, or 5.4%. in addition, an estimated $45 million, or 1.3%, of revenue is attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2011. net revenue was favorably impacted by the estimated net impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $7 million, or 0.2%. the remaining increase was primarily due to continued strength in end-market demand in our valves and controls and thermal controls businesses partially offset by weakness in our water and environmental systems business. the decreased revenue in our water and environmental systems business was primarily due to the completion of a large desalinization project in australia that commenced during the second quarter of fiscal 2010, and was completed at the beginning of the second quarter fiscal 2011. 47 table of contents net revenue for tyco flow control of $3.4 billion decreased by $122 million, or 3.5%, during the year ended year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009. net revenue was favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $218 million, or 6.2%, as well as the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures of $10 million, or 0.3%. this was more than offset by decreased revenues due to reduced volume in the valves and controls business driven by decreased demand in end markets. operating income and operating margin operating income and operating margin for tyco flow control for the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010, and september 25, 2009 were as follows ($ in millions): 2011 2010 2009 operating income $ 413 $ 410 $ 496 operating margin 11.3 % 12.2 % 14.2 % operating income of $413 million increased by $3 million, or 0.7%, in the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to the year ended september 24, 2010. operating income was favorably impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $22 million, or 5.4%. the increase in operating income was primarily due to continued strength in the valves and controls and thermal controls businesses, which was more than offset by weakness in our water and environmental systems business. restructuring charges, net were $11 million during the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to $25 million in the prior year. the year ended september 30, 2011 included a $6 million gain on divestiture, compared to a $1 million gain on divestiture for the year ended september 24, 2010. operating income of $410 million decreased by $86 million, or 17.3%, during the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to the year ended september 25, 2009, primarily due to decreased volume in our valves business and an expected loss related to completion of a long-term construction project of approximately $18 million. these declines were partially offset by favorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $31 million, or 6.3%. the decline in operating income was also partially offset by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring actions. operating income was unfavorably impacted by $24 million of restructuring and divestiture charges, net during both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. additionally, management estimated that $5 million of additional charges resulting from restructuring actions were incurred during the year ended september 25, 2009. corporate and other corporate expense decreased $266 million, or 57.6%, to $196 million for the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to an expense of $462 million for the year ended september 24, 2010. the decrease in corporate expense during the year ended september 30, 2011 is related to a $253 million net gain on divestitures, primarily related to the divestiture of our electrical and metal products business, compared to a $4 million net loss on divestitures during the year ended september 24, 2010. corporate expense was also favorably impacted by cost containment initiatives during the year ended september 30, 2011, as well as a lower net asbestos charge of $11 million recorded in connection with the company's valuation of its asbestos-related liabilities during the year ended september 30, 2011 compared to a $52 million, net asbestos charge recorded during the year ended september 24, 2010. corporate also recorded a $20 million charge in relation to a legacy legal matter during the year ended september 30, 2011 as compared to nil during the year ended september 24, 2010. additionally, net restructuring charges and acquisition charges for the year ended september 30, 2011 were $12 million and $1 million respectively, while the year ended september 24, 2010 included restructuring charges and acquisition charges of $1 million and $3 million, respectively. the year ended september 30, 2011 included $24 million of separation costs primarily related to 48 table of contents professional fees and banking services. see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. corporate expense decreased $108 million, or 18.9%, to $462 million for year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to $570 million for the year ended september 25, 2009. corporate expense during 2009 was negatively affected by approximately $125 million of charges related to legacy securities matters partially offset by a $16 million benefit related to a settlement reached with a former executive. restructuring charges decreased to $1 million for the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to $10 million in the year ended september 25, 2009. corporate expense was also favorably impacted by savings realized through cost containment and restructuring charges. these decreases in corporate expenses were partially offset by a $52 million net asbestos charge recorded during the third quarter of 2010 as compared to a $37 million net asbestos charge in 2009, both of which were recorded in conjunction with the valuation of our asbestos-related liabilities and insurance assets. in addition, $4 million of divestiture charges, net, and $3 million of acquisition costs were recorded during the year ended september 24, 2010 as compared to $6 million of divestiture charges, net, and nil of acquisition costs for the year ended september 25, 2009. interest income and expense interest income was $34 million in 2011, as compared to $31 million and $44 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. interest income increased in 2011 primarily due to increased investment yields compared to 2010, while investment yields continue to be lower than those experienced in 2009. interest expense was $244 million in 2011, as compared to $284 million and $301 million in 2010 and in 2009, respectively. the weighted-average interest rate on total debt outstanding as of september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010, september 25, 2009 was 5.9%, 6.3% and 6.6%, respectively. the decreases in interest expense and weighted-average interest rate are primarily related to savings realized from the replacement of higher coupon notes with lower coupon notes over the past year, including the redemption of 6.375% notes due 2011 and issuance of 3.375% notes due 2015 during the third quarter of 2010 and the maturity of 6.75% notes due 2011 and issuances of the 3.75% notes due 2018 and 4.625% notes due 2023 during the second quarter of 2011. other expense, net other expense, net of $16 million in 2011, primarily relates to our share of atkore's net loss of $9 million, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and a decrease in the receivables due from covidien and te connectivity under the tax sharing agreement of $7 million. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. other expense, net of $75 million in 2010, primarily related to a charge of $87 million as a loss on extinguishment of debt on the redemption of our 6.375% public notes due 2011, 7% notes due 2028 and 6.875% notes due 2029. see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. this loss was partially offset by an $8 million gain recorded as a result of an increase in the receivables due from covidien and te connectivity under the tax sharing agreement. other expense, net of $7 million in 2009, primarily related to a $14 million charge recorded as a result of a decrease in the receivables due from covidien and te connectivity under the tax sharing agreement, which was partially offset by income of $5 million relating to a gain on derivative contracts used to economically hedge the foreign currency risk related to the swiss franc denominated dividends. effective income tax rate our effective income tax rate was 17.2% and 10.9% during the years ended september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively. the increase in our effective income tax rate was primarily 49 table of contents related to the tax charge recorded in conjunction with the sale of a majority interest in our electrical and metal products business during the first quarter of 2011, a non-recurring transaction generating a tax benefit in 2010 and a release of a deferred tax valuation allowance in 2010. the effective income tax rate was positively impacted by favorable audit resolutions in multiple jurisdictions during 2011. the rate can vary from quarter to quarter due to discrete items such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors, such as the geographic mix of income before taxes. the effective income tax rate for 2009 is not meaningful primarily as a result of the loss driven by goodwill impairment charges of $2.6 billion for which almost no tax benefit was available. additionally, taxes for 2009 were positively impacted by increased profitability in lower tax rate jurisdictions and release of contingency reserves partially offset by enacted tax law changes and changes in foreign exchange rates that negatively impacted the non-u.s. deferred tax assets. the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of $1,400 million and $1,379 million as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively, relates principally to the uncertainty of the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss and credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. the valuation allowance was calculated and recorded when the company determined that it was more-likely-than-not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets would not be realized. the company believes that it will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets on the company's consolidated balance sheets. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. substantially all of these potential tax liabilities are recorded in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as payment is not expected within one year. 2009 goodwill and intangible asset impairments annually in the fiscal fourth quarter, and more frequently if triggering events occur, we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets with its carrying amount. we began to experience a decline in revenue during the first quarter of 2009 in our tyco security solutions and tyco fire protection segments as a result of a slowdown in the commercial markets, including the retailer end market as well as a decline in sales volume at our electrical metal products segments. although we considered and concluded that these factors did not constitute triggering events during the first quarter of 2009, the continued existence of these conditions during the second quarter of 2009, along with downward revisions to forecasted results, restructuring actions and weaker industry outlooks, caused us to conclude that sufficient indicators of impairment existed. reporting units within our tyco security solutions and tyco fire protection segments continued to be negatively impacted as a result of a slowdown in the commercial markets including the retailer end market. additionally, our electrical metal products reporting unit continued to be negatively impacted by a decline in sales volume due to the downturn in the non-residential construction market. we determined that these underlying events and circumstances constituted triggering events for six reporting units where such events would more likely than not reduce the fair value below their respective carrying amounts. specifically, we concluded that our emea security, acvs and sensormatic retail solutions ("srs") reporting units within the tyco security solutions segment the emea fire and life safety reporting units within the tyco fire protection segment and our electrical and metal products reporting unit 50 table of contents within the electrical and metal products segment experienced triggering events such that the carrying values of these reporting units likely exceeded their fair values. furthermore, we determined that certain indefinite-lived intangible assets required impairment testing based on the underlying events and circumstances described as well as the continued deterioration of the business environment related to the retailer end market of our tyco security solutions segments. as a result of the triggering events, we performed long-lived asset, goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests for these reporting units and certain of our trade names and franchise rights. fair value of each reporting unit was determined utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on forecast cash flows (including underlying revenue and operating income growth rates) discounted using an estimated weighted-average cost of capital of market participants. in determining fair value, management relied on and considered a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic projections including the timing for an economic recovery, cash flow forecasts, market data, and our overall market capitalization. based on the factors described above, actual and anticipated reductions in demand for the reporting unit's products and services as well as increased risk due to economic uncertainty, the estimates of future cash flows used in the second quarter of 2009 discounted cash flow analyses were revised downward from our most recent test conducted during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2008. furthermore, the range of the weighted-average cost of capital utilized was increased to reflect increased risk due to economic volatility and uncertainties related to demand for our products and services. the results of the goodwill impairment tests indicated that the implied goodwill amount was less than the carrying amount of goodwill for each of the aforementioned reporting units. we recorded an aggregate non-cash impairment charge of $2.6 billion ($2.6 billion after-tax) during the second quarter of 2009. the non-cash impairment charge was recorded in goodwill and intangible asset impairments in our consolidated statements of operations for the quarter ended march 27, 2009. indefinite-lived intangible assets consisting primarily of trade names and franchise rights were tested for impairment using either a relief from royalty method or excess earnings method, which include the selection of appropriate discount rates, royalty rates and terminal year growth rate assumptions and estimates of the amount and timing of future cash flows attributable to the underlying intangible assets. also, during the second quarter of 2009, our estimates of future cash flows used in determining the fair value of our tyco security solutions segment sensormatic tradename as well as certain tyco security solutions segment franchise rights were revised downward relative to the estimates used in our tests during the fourth quarter of 2008. the results of the impairment test indicated that the tyco security solutions sensormatic tradename and tyco security solutions franchise rights estimated fair values were less than their respective carrying amounts. as a result, we recorded an aggregate non-cash impairment charge of $64 million ($40 million after-tax) during the second quarter of 2009. the non-cash impairment charge was recorded in goodwill and intangible asset impairments in our consolidated statements of operations for the quarter ended march 27, 2009. critical accounting policies and estimates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with us gaap requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. the following accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risks and uncertainties. management's estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. depreciation and amortization methods for security monitoring-related assets tyco considers assets related to the acquisition of new customers in its electronic security business in three asset categories: internally generated residential subscriber systems, internally generated commercial subscriber systems (collectively referred to as subscriber system assets) and customer accounts acquired through the adt dealer program (referred to as dealer intangibles). subscriber system assets include installed property, 51 table of contents plant and equipment for which tyco retains ownership and deferred costs directly related to the customer acquisition and system installation. subscriber system assets and any deferred revenue resulting from the customer acquisition are accounted for over the expected life of the subscriber. in certain geographical areas where the company has a large number of customers that behave in a similar manner over time, the company accounts for subscriber system assets and related deferred revenue using pools, with separate pools for the components of subscriber system assets and any related deferred revenue based on the month and year of acquisition. the company depreciates its pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in north america) and related deferred revenue using an accelerated method with lives up to 15 years. the accelerated method utilizes declining balance rates based on geographical area ranging from 160% to 265% for residential subscriber pools and 135% to 360% for commercial subscriber pools and converts to a straight line methodology when the resulting depreciation charge is greater than that from the accelerated method. the company uses a straight-line method with a 14-year life for non-pooled subscriber system assets (primarily in europe and asia) and related deferred revenue, with remaining balances written off upon customer termination. revenue recognition contract sales for the installation of fire protection systems, large security intruder systems and other construction-related projects are recorded primarily under the percentage-of-completion method. profits recognized on contracts in process are based upon estimated contract revenue and related total cost of the project at completion. the risk of this methodology is its dependence upon estimates of costs at completion, which are subject to the uncertainties inherent in long-term contracts. provisions for anticipated losses are made in the period in which they become determinable. sales of security monitoring systems may have multiple elements, including equipment, installation, monitoring services and maintenance agreements. we assess our revenue arrangements to determine the appropriate units of accounting. when ownership of the system is transferred to the customer, each deliverable provided under the arrangement is considered a separate unit of accounting. revenues associated with sale of equipment and related installations are recognized once delivery, installation and customer acceptance is completed, while the revenue for monitoring and maintenance services are recognized as services are rendered. amounts assigned to each unit of accounting are based on an allocation of total arrangement consideration using a hierarchy of estimated selling price for the deliverables. the selling price used for each deliverable will be based on vendor specific objective evidence ("vsoe") if available, third party evidence ("tpe") if vsoe is not available, or estimated selling price if neither vsoe or tpe is available. revenue recognized for equipment and installation is limited to the lesser of their allocated amounts under the estimated selling price hierarchy or the non-contingent up-front consideration received at the time of installation, since collection of future amounts under the arrangement with the customer is contingent upon the delivery of monitoring and maintenance services. product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants. rebates are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience and trend analysis. loss contingencies accruals are recorded for various contingencies including legal proceedings, self-insurance and other claims that arise in the normal course of business. the accruals are based on judgment, the probability of losses and, where applicable, the consideration of opinions of internal and/or external legal counsel and actuarially determined estimates. additionally, the company records receivables from third party insurers when recovery has been determined to be probable. asbestos-related contingencies and insurance receivables we and certain of our subsidiaries along with numerous other companies are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. we estimate the liability and corresponding insurance recovery for pending and future claims and defense costs predominantly based on claim experience 52 table of contents over the past five years, and a projection which covers claims expected to be filed, including related defense costs, over the next seven years on an undiscounted basis. due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the pattern and length of time over which claims will be made and then settled or litigated, we use multiple estimation methodologies based on varying scenarios of potential outcomes to estimate the range of loss. we have concluded that estimating the liability beyond the seven year period will not provide a reasonable estimate, as these uncertainties increase significantly as the projection period lengthens. in connection with the recognition of liabilities for asbestos-related matters, we record asbestos-related insurance recoveries that are probable. the estimate of asbestos-related insurance recoveries represents estimated amounts due to us for previously paid and settled claims and the probable reimbursements relating to estimated liability for pending and future claims. in determining the amount of insurance recoverable, we consider available insurance, allocation methodologies, solvency and creditworthiness of the insurers. annually, we perform a detailed analysis with the assistance of outside legal counsel and other experts to review and update as appropriate the underlying assumptions used in the estimated asbestos-related assets and liabilities. on a quarterly basis, we re-evaluate the assumptions used to perform the annual analysis and record an expense as necessary to reflect changes in the estimated liability and related insurance asset. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of management's judgments applied in the recognition and measurement of asbestos-related assets and liabilities. income taxes in determining taxable income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. these estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. in evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. in estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future pre-tax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. these assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. we currently have recorded valuation allowances that we will maintain until it is more-likely-than-not the deferred tax assets will be realized. our income tax expense recorded in the future may be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. the realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. any reduction in future taxable income including but not limited to any future restructuring activities may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. an increase in the valuation allowance could result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. management records the affect of a tax rate or law change on the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period of enactment. future tax rate or law changes could have a material effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the u.s. and 53 table of contents other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. we adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. if our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment annually and more frequently if triggering events occur. in performing these assessments, management relies on various factors, including operating results, business plans, economic projections including expectations and assumptions regarding the timing and degree of any economic recovery, anticipated future cash flows, comparable market transactions (to the extent available) and other market data. we elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for all goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. in the first step of the goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. fair value for the goodwill impairment test is determined utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on forecast cash flows (including estimated underlying revenue and operating income growth rates) discounted using an estimated weighted-average cost of capital for market participants. a market approach, utilizing observable market data such as comparable companies in similar lines of business that are publicly traded or which are part of a public or private transaction (to the extent available), is used to corroborate the discounted cash flow analysis performed at each reporting unit. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered potentially impaired and further tests are performed to measure the amount of impairment loss. in the second step of the goodwill impairment test, we compare the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess of the carrying amount of goodwill over its implied fair value. the implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner that the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination is determined. we allocate the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. any excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. we recorded no goodwill impairments in conjunction with our annual goodwill impairment assessment performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. additionally, we determined as part of the assessment that our water and environmental systems reporting unit within our flow control segment had limited recoverability of goodwill. the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by 6.9%. as of september 30, 2011, the water and environmental systems goodwill balance was $298 million. while historical performance and current expectations have resulted in fair values of goodwill in excess of carrying values, if our assumptions are not realized, it is possible that in the future an impairment charge may need to be recorded. however, it is not possible at this time to determine if an impairment charge would result or if such a charge would be material. the company will continue to monitor the recoverability of its goodwill. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions and factors. as a result, there can be no assurance that the estimates and assumptions made for purposes of the annual goodwill impairment test will prove to be accurate predictions of the future. examples of events or circumstances that could reasonably be expected to negatively affect the 54 table of contents underlying key assumptions and ultimately impact the estimated fair value of the aforementioned reporting units may include such items as follows: a prolonged downturn in the business environment in which the reporting units operate (i.e. sales volumes and prices) especially in the commercial construction and retailer end markets; an economic recovery that significantly differs from our assumptions in timing or degree; volatility in equity and debt markets resulting in higher discount rates; and unexpected regulatory changes. while historical performance and current expectations have resulted in fair values of goodwill in excess of carrying values, if our assumptions are not realized, it is possible that in the future an impairment charge may need to be recorded. however, it is not possible at this time to determine if an impairment charge would result or if such a charge would be material. long-lived assets asset groups held and used by the company, including property, plant and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset group may not be fully recoverable. tyco performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if impairment exists. for purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, tyco groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identified. if an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. impairments to long-lived assets to be disposed of are recorded based upon the fair value less cost to sell of the applicable assets. the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets is based on assumptions concerning the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows and assumed discount rates, reflecting varying degrees of perceived risk. since judgment is involved in determining the fair value and useful lives of long-lived assets, there is a risk that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may be overstated or understated. pension and postretirement benefits our pension expense and obligations are developed from actuarial valuations. two critical assumptions in determining pension expense and obligations are the discount rate and expected long-term return on plan assets. we evaluate these assumptions at least annually. other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover and are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. actual results may differ from actuarial assumptions resulting in actuarial gains and losses. for active plans, such actuarial gains and losses will be amortized over the average expected service period of the participants and in the case of inactive plans over the average remaining life expectancy of participants. the discount rate represents the market rate for high-quality fixed income investments and is used to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows for benefit obligations under our pension plans. a decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of pension benefit obligations. a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate would increase the present value of pension obligations by approximately $75 million and increase our annual pension expense by approximately $2 million. we consider the relative weighting of plan assets by class, historical performance of asset classes over long-term periods, asset class performance expectations as well as current and future economic conditions in determining the expected long-term return on plan assets. a 25 basis point decrease in the expected long-term return on plan assets would increase our annual pension expense by approximately $4 million. 55 table of contents liquidity and capital resources a fundamental objective of the company is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of its core businesses around the world. the primary source of funds to finance our operations and capital expenditures is cash generated by operations. in addition, we maintain a commercial paper program, have access to committed revolving credit facilities and have access to equity and debt capital from public and private sources. we continue to balance our operating, investing and financing uses of cash through investments and acquisitions in our core businesses, dividends and share repurchases. in addition, we currently estimate that we will incur approximately $700 million in costs related to the 2012 separation. we believe our cash position, amounts available under our credit facilities and cash provided by operating activities will be adequate to cover our operational and business needs in the foreseeable future. we had $1.4 billion and $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively. cash generated by operating activities decreased to $2.4 billion for the year ended september 30, 2011 compared to $2.6 billion for the year ended september 24, 2010. cash used in investing activities was $1.3 billion for the year ended september 30, 2011 compared to $1.8 billion for the year ended september 24, 2010. cash used in financing activities was $1.5 billion for the year ended september 30, 2011 compared to $1.4 billion for the year ended september 24, 2010. as of september 30, 2011, our shareholder's equity was $14.2 billion and our total debt was $4.1 billion. in addition, we had lines of credit totaling approximately $1.5 billion, none of which were drawn. our ratio of total debt to total capital (the sum of our short- and long-term debt and shareholders' equity) was 23% as of both september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively. this ratio is a measure of our long-term liquidity and is an indicator of financial flexibility. on january 12, 2011, tifsa, our finance subsidiary, issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% notes due on january 15, 2018 and $250 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% notes due on january 15, 2023, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company. tifsa received net cash proceeds of approximately $494 million. the net proceeds, along with other available funds, were used to fund the repayment of all of our outstanding 6.75% notes due in february 2011 with a principal amount of $516 million. on march 24, 2011, tifsa, as the borrower, and the company as the guarantor, entered into a four-year senior unsecured credit agreement, providing for revolving credit commitments in the aggregate amount of $750 million (the "credit agreement"). in connection with entering into the credit agreement, tifsa and the company terminated the existing three-year senior unsecured credit agreement, dated june 24, 2008, which provided for revolving credit commitments in the aggregate amount of $500 million, and which was scheduled to expire in june 2011. at the same time, tifsa also reduced the lenders' commitments under its existing five-year senior unsecured credit agreement, dated april 25, 2007, from an aggregate of $1.19 billion to $750 million, and which is scheduled to expire in april 2012. 56 table of contents cash flow from operating activities the sources of our cash flow from operating activities and the use of a portion of that cash in our operations for the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009 are as follows ($ in millions): 2011 2010 2009 cash flows from operating activities: operating income (loss) $ 2,119 $ 1,598 $ (1,506 ) goodwill and intangible asset impairments 2,705 depreciation and amortization (1) 1,318 1,203 1,126 (gain) loss on divestitures (230 ) (41 ) 13 non-cash compensation expense 110 120 103 deferred income taxes 91 (129 ) (90 ) provision for losses on accounts receivable and inventory 82 127 156 other, net 67 37 80 net change in working capital (584 ) 106 128 interest income 34 31 44 interest expense (244 ) (284 ) (301 ) income tax expense (326 ) (138 ) (71 ) net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,437 $ 2,630 $ 2,387 other cash flow items: capital expenditures, net (2) $ (779 ) $ (689 ) $ (690 ) increase (decrease) in the sale of accounts receivable 1 (2 ) 10 accounts purchased by adt (614 ) (559 ) (543 ) purchase accounting and holdback liabilities (10 ) (3 ) (2 ) voluntary pension contributions 15 22 (1) includes depreciation expense of $695 million, $654 million, and $610 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and amortization of intangible assets of $623 million, $549 million, and $516 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. (2) includes net proceeds received for the sale/disposition of property, plant and equipment of $9 million, $29 million, and $12 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively the net change in working capital decreased operating cash flow by $584 million in 2011. the significant changes in working capital included a $271 million decrease in accrued and other liabilities, a $187 million increase in accounts receivable and a $137 million increase in inventories. the net change in working capital increased operating cash flow by $106 million in 2010. the significant changes in working capital included a $119 million increase in accounts payable and an $88 million decrease in prepaid and other current assets which were partially offset by a $108 million increase in inventories. the net change in working capital increased operating cash flow by $128 million in 2009. the significant changes in working capital included a $346 million decrease in inventory, a $191 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $106 million net decrease in contracts in progress, partially offset by a $337 million decrease in accounts payable and a $138 million decrease in income taxes, net. during 2011, 2010 and 2009, we paid approximately $114 million, $160 million (inclusive of $2 million relating to the french security business being classified as held for sale) and $152 million, respectively, in cash related to restructuring activities. see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our restructuring activities. during the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009 we made required contributions of $78 million, $82 million and $60 million, respectively to our u.s. and 57 table of contents non-u.s. pension plans. we also made voluntary contributions of approximately $15 million, nil and $22 million to our u.s. plans during the years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009. we anticipate contributing at least the minimum required to our pension plans in fiscal year 2012 of $44 million for our u.s. plans and $60 million for our non-u.s. plans. income taxes paid, net of refunds, related to continuing operations were $196 million, $255 million, and $281 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. net interest paid, related to continuing operations were $195 million, $234 million, and $249 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. cash flow from investing activities we made capital expenditures of $788 million, $718 million, and $702 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the level of capital expenditures in fiscal year 2012 is expected to exceed the spending levels in fiscal year 2011 and is also expected to exceed depreciation expense. during 2011, 2010 and 2009, we paid approximately $614 million, $559 million, and $543 million of cash, respectively, to acquire approximately 565,000, 501,000 and 512,000 customer contracts for electronic security services within our tyco security solutions segment. during 2011, we paid cash for acquisitions included in continuing operations totaling $656 million, net of cash acquired of $4 million, which primarily related to the acquisitions of signature security group within our tyco security solutions segment, kef holdings ltd. within our tyco flow control segment and chemguard within our tyco fire protection segment. during 2010, cash paid for acquisitions included in continuing operations totaled $600 million, net of cash acquired of $137 million, which primarily related to the acquisition of broadview security within our tyco security solutions segment and hiter within our tyco flow control segment. during 2011, we received cash proceeds, net of cash divested of approximately $1 billion for divestitures. the cash proceeds primarily related to the sale of a majority interest in our electrical and metal products business of $713 million, which is presented in continuing operations and $264 million for the sale of our european water business which is presented in discontinued operations. see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. cash flow from financing activities on january 12, 2011, tifsa, our finance subsidiary, issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% notes due on january 15, 2018 and $250 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% notes due on january 15, 2023, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company. tifsa received net cash proceeds of approximately $494 million after deducting debt issuance costs and a debt discount. the net proceeds, along with other available funds, were used to fund the repayment of all of our outstanding 6.75% notes due in february 2011 with a principal amount of $516 million. in connection with the acquisition of kef during the year ended september 30, 2011, the company acquired $64 million of debt which was substantially paid as of september 30, 2011. during the second half of fiscal 2011, tifsa issued commercial paper to u.s. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers. borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes. as of september 30, 2011, tifsa had no commercial paper outstanding. during the first quarter of fiscal 2010, tifsa had made payments of $200 million to extinguish all of its commercial paper outstanding. on may 5, 2010, tifsa issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.375% notes due, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company. tifsa received net proceeds of 58 table of contents approximately $495 million after deducting debt issuance costs and a debt discount. on may 28, 2010, the company used the net proceeds of the aforementioned offering and additional cash on hand to redeem all of its 6.375% public notes due 2011, 7% notes due 2028 and 6.875% notes due 2029, outstanding at that time, which aggregated $878 million in principal amount. on october 5, 2009, tifsa issued $500 million aggregate principle amount of 4.125% notes due 2014, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company. tifsa received net proceeds of approximately $495 million after deducting debt issuance costs and a debt discount. on january 9, 2009, tifsa issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 8.5% notes due on january 15, 2019, which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company. tifsa received net proceeds of approximately $745 million after underwriting discounts and offering expenses. on january 15, 2009, tifsa made a payment of $215 million to extinguish all of its 6.125% notes, due 2009 which matured on the same date. additionally, in november 2008, tifsa made a payment of $300 million to extinguish all of its 6.125% notes due 2008. pursuant to our share repurchase program, we may repurchase tyco shares from time to time in open market purchases at prevailing market prices, in negotiated transactions off the market, or pursuant to an approved 10b5-1 trading plan in accordance with applicable regulations. during the year ended september 30, 2011, we repurchased approximately 30 million common shares for approximately $1.3 billion under the 2011, 2010 and 2008 share repurchase programs, which completed both the 2010 and 2008 programs. during the year ended september 24, 2010, we repurchased approximately 24 million common shares for approximately $900 million under the 2008 share repurchase program. on march 9, 2011, our shareholders approved an annual dividend on our common shares of $1.00 per share, to be paid from contributed surplus in four installments of $0.25 per share. during the 2011, 2010 and 2009 fiscal years, we paid cash dividends of approximately $458 million, $416 million and $388 million, respectively. see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for further information. management believes that cash generated by or available to us should be sufficient to fund our capital and operational business needs for the foreseeable future, including capital expenditures, quarterly dividend payments, share repurchases and separation-related expenses. commitments and contingencies for a detailed discussion of contingencies related to tax and litigation matters and governmental investigations, see notes 7 and 15 to our consolidated financial statements. contractual obligations contractual obligations and commitments for debt, minimum lease payment obligations under non-cancellable operating leases and obligations as of september 30, 2011 are as follows ($ in millions): fiscal year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total debt principal (1) $ $ $ 656 $ 500 $ 500 $ 2,379 $ 4,035 interest payments (2) 240 240 220 190 171 571 1,632 capital leases (3) 3 4 5 6 8 30 56 operating leases 228 179 133 105 62 143 850 purchase obligations (4) 492 32 5 1 530 total contractual cash obligations (5) $ 963 $ 455 $ 1,019 $ 802 $ 741 $ 3,123 $ 7,103 (1) excludes debt discount, swap activity and interest. 59 table of contents (2) interest payments consist of interest on our fixed interest rate debt and exclude the impact of our interest rate swaps. as of september 30, 2011, we had swapped an aggregate of approximately $1.2 billion of fixed for floating rate debt. (3) excludes interest. (4) purchase obligations consist of commitments for purchases of goods and services. (5) other long-term liabilities excluded from the above contractual obligation table primarily consist of the following: pension and postretirement costs, income taxes, warranties and environmental liabilities. we are unable to estimate the timing of payment for these items due to the inherent uncertainties related to these obligations. however, the minimum required contributions to our pension plans are expected to be approximately $104 million in 2012 and we expect to pay $5 million in 2012 related to postretirement benefit plans. as of september 30, 2011, we recorded gross unrecognized tax benefits of $270 million and gross interest and penalties of $60 million. we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing for the remaining payments in future years; therefore, such amounts have been excluded from the above contractual obligation table. however, based on the current status of our income tax audits, we believe that is reasonably possible that between nil and $60 million in unrecognized tax benefits may be resolved in the next twelve months. as of september 30, 2011, we had total commitments of $1.5 billion under our revolving credit facilities, $750 million of which expires on march 24, 2015 and $750 million of which expires on april 25, 2012. as of september 30, 2011, there were no amounts drawn under these revolving credit facilities. tifsa's bank credit agreements contain customary terms and conditions, and financial covenants that limit the ratio of our debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and that limit our ability to incur subsidiary debt or grant liens on our property. our indentures contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. none of these covenants are considered restrictive to our business. during the second half of fiscal 2011, tifsa, the company's finance subsidiary, issued commercial paper to u.s. institutional accredited investors and qualified institutional buyers. borrowings under the commercial paper program are available for general corporate purposes. as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, tifsa had no commercial paper outstanding. in the normal course of business, we are liable for contract completion and product performance. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. in connection with the 2007 separation, we entered into a liability sharing agreement regarding certain actions that were pending against tyco prior to the 2007 separation. under the separation and distribution agreement and tax sharing agreement, we have assumed 27%, covidien has assumed 42% and te connectivity has assumed 31% of certain tyco pre-separation contingent and other corporate liabilities, which, as of september 30, 2011, primarily relate to tax contingencies and potential actions with respect to the spin-offs or the distributions made or brought by any third party. backlog we had a backlog of unfilled orders of $9.7 billion and $9.5 billion as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively. we expect that approximately 88% of our backlog as of 60 table of contents september 30, 2011 will be filled during the next 12 months. backlog by segment was as follows ($ in millions): september 30, 2011 september 24, 2010 tyco security solutions $ 6,776 $ 6,610 tyco flow control 1,744 1,482 tyco fire protection 1,131 1,296 electrical and metal products 88 $ 9,651 $ 9,476 backlog increased $175 million, or 1.8%, to $9.7 billion as of september 30, 2011. the net increase in backlog was primarily related to an increase in recurring revenue-in-force in our tyco security solutions segment and increased bookings in our tyco flow control segment. these increases were partially offset by a decrease in bookings in our tyco fire protection segment. tyco security solutions' backlog includes recurring revenue-in-force and long-term deferred revenue for upfront fees paid by customers for tyco security solutions' owned security systems. revenue-in-force represents 12 months' revenue associated with monitoring and maintenance services under contract in the security business. tyco security solutions' backlog of $6.8 billion and $6.6 billion as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively, consists primarily of $4.9 billion and $4.8 billion of recurring revenue-in-force as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, respectively, and $1.1 billion of deferred revenue for both september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010. tyco security solutions' backlog increased $166 million, or 2.5%. the net increase was primarily due to an increase in revenue-in-force, partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates by $36 million, or 0.5%. tyco flow controls' backlog increased by $262 million, or 17.7%. the net increase was primarily due to increased bookings for several large projects within our valves and controls and thermal controls businesses. changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted tyco flow controls' backlog by $7 million, or 0.5%. these increases were partially offset by a decline in bookings in our water and environmental systems business. tyco fire protections' backlog decreased by $165 million, or 12.7%. tyco fire protections' backlog was unfavorably impacted by the deconsolidation of a joint venture as a result of adopting a new accounting standard. in addition, backlog decreased in emea as a result of project selectivity resulting from a focus on higher margin projects. these decreases were partially offset by increases in our north american and global fire safety products businesses. changes in foreign currency exchange rates also favorably impacted tyco fire protections' backlog by $17 million, or 1.3%. off-balance sheet arrangements sale of accounts receivable certain of our international businesses utilize the sale of accounts receivable as short-term financing mechanisms. the aggregate amount outstanding under our international accounts receivable programs was not material as of september 30, 2011 or september 24, 2010. guarantees certain of our business segments have guaranteed the performance of third-parties and provided financial guarantees for uncompleted work and financial commitments. the terms of these guarantees vary with end dates ranging from the current fiscal year through the completion of such transactions. the guarantees would typically be triggered in the event of nonperformance and performance under the guarantees, if required, would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 61 table of contents there are certain guarantees or indemnifications extended among tyco, covidien and te connectivity in accordance with the terms of the separation and distribution agreement and the tax sharing agreement. the guarantees primarily relate to certain contingent tax liabilities included in the tax sharing agreement. at the time of the 2007 separation, we recorded a liability necessary to recognize the fair value of such guarantees and indemnifications. see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the tax sharing agreement. in addition, prior to the 2007 separation we provided support in the form of financial and/or performance guarantees to various covidien and te connectivity operating entities. to the extent these guarantees were not assigned in connection with the 2007 separation, we assumed primary liability on any remaining such support. these obligations were not material to us as of september 30, 2011. in disposing of assets or businesses, we often provide representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks including, for example, unknown damage to the assets, environmental risks involved in the sale of real estate, liability to investigate and remediate environmental contamination at waste disposal sites and manufacturing facilities, and unidentified tax liabilities and legal fees related to periods prior to disposition. we have no reason to believe that these uncertainties would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we have recorded liabilities for known indemnifications included as part of environmental liabilities. see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these liabilities. in the normal course of business, we are liable for contract completion and product performance. we record estimated product warranty costs at the time of sale. in the opinion of management, such obligations will not significantly affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. as of september 30, 2011, we had total outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees of approximately $724 million. for a detailed discussion of guarantees and indemnifications, see note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. accounting pronouncements see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements. forward-looking information certain statements in this report are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the u.s. private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. all statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking, and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "project" and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the sec, or in tyco's communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and conference calls, regarding expectations with respect to sales, earnings, cash flows, operating and tax efficiencies, product expansion, backlog, the consummation and benefits of acquisitions and divestitures, as well as financings and repurchases of debt or equity securities, are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and contingencies. many of these risks, uncertainties and contingencies are beyond our control, and may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performances or achievements. factors that might affect such forward-looking statements include, among other things: overall economic and business conditions, and overall demand for tyco's goods and services; 62 table of contents economic and competitive conditions in the industries, end markets and regions served by our businesses; changes in tax requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws or treaties and revised tax law interpretations); results and consequences of tyco's internal investigations and governmental investigations concerning the company's governance, management, internal controls and operations including its business operations outside the united states; the outcome of litigation, arbitrations and governmental proceedings; effect of income tax audit settlement and appeals; our ability to repay or refinance our outstanding indebtedness as it matures; our ability to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements and to maintain our credit ratings; interest rate fluctuations and other changes in borrowing costs; other capital market conditions, including availability of funding sources and currency exchange rate fluctuations; availability of and fluctuations in the prices of key raw materials; economic and political conditions in international markets, including governmental changes and restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders; the ability to achieve cost savings in connection with the company's strategic restructuring and "growing lean" initiatives; our ability to execute our portfolio refinement and acquisition strategies; potential impairment of our goodwill, intangibles and/or our long-lived assets; the impact of fluctuations in the price of tyco common shares, including potentially adverse impacts resulting from the proposed spin-offs of our flow control and north american residential security businesses; risks associated with our swiss incorporation, including the possibility of reduced flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management, increased or different regulatory burdens, and the possibility that we may not realize anticipated tax benefits; changes in u.s. and non-u.s. government laws and regulations; the possible effects on tyco of future legislation in the united states that may limit or eliminate potential u.s. tax benefits resulting from tyco international's swiss incorporation or deny u.s. government contracts to tyco based upon its swiss incorporation; failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals or to satisfy any other condition to the proposed spin-offs; failure to realize the expected benefits of the proposed spin-offs, including the tax-free nature of the spin-offs; and failure to complete the proposed spin-offs on schedule and within estimated costs. 63 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures to which we believe we are subject. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign currency options, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and forward commodity contracts. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having at least an a-/a3 long-term debt rating. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. foreign currency exposures we hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts. during 2011, our largest exposures to foreign exchange rates existed primarily with the swiss franc, british pound, euro, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign currency exchange contracts is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 30, 2011. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $32 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $39 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. during the third quarter of 2010, tyco international finance, s.a. ("tifsa"), the company's finance subsidiary, entered into foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge its euro denominated net investment. the aggregate notional amount of these hedges was approximately $224 million and $255 million as of september 30, 2011, and september 24, 2010, respectively. the potential impact from a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $19 million net increase in other comprehensive income. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro would result in a $24 million net decrease in other comprehensive income. as of september 30, 2011, and september 24, 2010, $2.9 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, of intercompany loans have been designated as permanent in nature. for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2011, september 24, 2010 and september 25, 2009, we recorded $16 million of cumulative transaction gain, $24 million of cumulative translation loss and nil, respectively, through accumulated other comprehensive loss related to these loans. 64 table of contents interest rate exposures our long-term debt portfolio primarily consists of fixed-rate instruments. the company manages its interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap transactions with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties, which were designated as fair value hedges for accounting purposes. these interest rate swap transactions manage the exposure to interest rate risk by converting interest rates of fixed-rate debt to variable rates. during the second quarter of 2011, tifsa also entered into interest rate swaps contracts to hedge $155 million notional amount of the 4.125% public notes due 2014. in these contracts, tifsa agrees with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated on an agreed-upon notional principal amount. in connection with the maturity of the 6.75% public notes during the second quarter of 2011, tifsa settled the corresponding interest rate swaps. as of september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, the total gross notional amount of the company's interest rate swap contracts was $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. a 100 basis point increase in interest rates relative to interest rates as of september 30, 2011 would result in a $29 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 100 basis point decrease in interest rates relative to interest rates as of september 30, 2011 would result in a $30 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. commodity exposures we are exposed to volatility in the prices of raw materials used in some of our products and may, in limited circumstances, enter into hedging contracts to manage those exposures. these exposures are monitored as an integral part of our risk management program. during 2011 and 2010, the company entered into commodity swaps for copper which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. these swaps did not have a material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in the price of copper as of september 30, 2011 would not have a material impact on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters and item 3. legal proceedings. 9 table of contents environmental matters we are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; and the health and safety of our employees. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances or pursuant to indemnifications provided by us in connection with asset disposals. we have received notification from the u.s. environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at a number of current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations. given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods, the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict. based upon our experience, current information regarding known contingencies and applicable laws, we concluded that it is probable that we would incur remedial costs in the range of approximately $48 million to $60 million as of september 28, 2012. as of september 28, 2012, we concluded that the best estimate within this range is approximately $50 million, of which $43 million is included in accrued and other current liabilities and $7 million is included in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet. in view of our financial position and reserves for environmental matters, we believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. employees as of september 28, 2012, we employed more than 70,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 20,000 were employed in the united states and approximately 50,000 were outside the united states. approximately 10,000 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils and we believe that our relations with the labor unions are generally good. available information tyco is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. investors may read and copy any document that tyco files, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., room 1580, washington, dc 20549. investors may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec, from which investors can electronically access tyco's sec filings. our internet website is www.tyco.com . we make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, reports filed pursuant to section 16 and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the sec. as a swiss company, we prepare swiss statutory financial 10 table of contents statements, including swiss consolidated financial statements, on an annual basis. a copy of the swiss statutory financial statements is distributed along with our annual report to shareholders, and all of the aforementioned reports will be made available to our shareholders upon their request. in addition, we have posted the charters for our audit committee, compensation and human resources committee, and nominating and governance committee, as well as our board governance principles and guide to ethical conduct, on our website under the headings "about board of directors" and "about our people and values." the annual report to shareholders, charters and principles are not incorporated in this report by reference. we will also provide a copy of these documents free of charge to shareholders upon request. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. the risks described below are not the only ones facing us. our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as technological obsolescence, labor relations, geopolitical events, climate change and international operations. risks relating to our businesses general economic and cyclical industry conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by general economic conditions and the cyclical pattern of certain markets that we serve. for example, demand for our services and products is significantly affected by the level of commercial and residential construction, industrial capital expenditures for facility expansions and maintenance and the amount of discretionary business and consumer spending, each of which historically has displayed significant cyclicality. even if demand for our products is not negatively affected, the liquidity and financial position of our customers could impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis. much of the demand for installation of security products and fire detection and suppression solutions is driven by commercial and residential construction and industrial facility expansion and maintenance projects. commercial and residential construction projects are heavily dependent on general economic conditions, localized demand for commercial and residential real estate and availability of credit. many commercial and residential real estate markets have experienced excess capacity since the beginning of the global financial crisis, and in some markets demand may not improve significantly for years, if at all. in addition, most commercial and residential real estate developers rely heavily on project financing from banks and other institutional lenders in order to initiate and complete projects. the decline in real estate values in many parts of the world that accompanied the global financial crisis has led to significant reductions in the availability of project financing, even in markets where demand may otherwise be sufficient to support new construction. these factors have in turn hampered demand for new fire detection and suppression and security installations. levels of industrial capital expenditures for facility expansions and maintenance turn on general economic conditions, economic conditions within specific industries we serve, expectations of future market behavior and available financing. additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. the businesses of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical and petrochemical companies and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. during such economic downturns, customers in these industries historically have tended to delay major capital projects, including greenfield construction, expensive 11 table of contents maintenance projects and upgrades. additionally, demand for our products and services may be affected by volatility in energy and commodity prices and fluctuating demand forecasts, as our customers may be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. although our industrial customers tend to be less dependent on project financing than real estate developers, disruptions in financial markets and banking systems, could make credit and capital markets difficult for our customers to access, and could raise the cost of new debt for our customers to prohibitive levels. any difficulty in accessing these markets and the increased associated costs can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during periods of favorable end-market conditions. many of our customers outside of the industrial and commercial sectors, including governmental and institutional customers, have experienced budgetary constraints as sources of revenue, including tax receipts, general obligation and construction bonds, endowments and donations, have been negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions. these budgetary constraints have in the past and may in the future reduce demand for our products among governmental and institutional customers. reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. this reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in the industries we serve. any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we face competition in each of our businesses, which results in pressure on our profit margins and limits our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. if we cannot successfully compete in an increasingly global market-place, our operating results may be adversely affected. we operate in competitive domestic and international markets and compete with many highly competitive manufacturers and service providers, both domestically and on a global basis. our manufacturing businesses face competition from lower cost manufacturers in asia and elsewhere and our service businesses face competition from alternative service providers around the world. currently, key components of our competitive position are our ability to bring to market industry-leading products and services, to adapt to changing competitive environments and to manage expenses successfully. these factors require continuous management focus on maintaining our competitive position through technological innovation, cost reduction, productivity improvement and a regular appraisal of our asset portfolio. if we are unable to maintain our position as a market leader, or to achieve appropriate levels of scalability or cost-effectiveness, or if we are otherwise unable to manage and react to changes in the global marketplace, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to continue to adapt our products, services and organization to meet the demands of local markets in both developed and emerging economies and by developing or acquiring new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by evolving industry standards. although many of our largest competitors are also global industrial companies, we compete with thousands of smaller regional and local companies that may be positioned to offer products produced at lower cost than ours, particularly in emerging markets, or to capitalize on highly localized relationships and knowledge that are difficult for us to replicate. we have found that in several emerging markets potential customers prefer local suppliers, in some cases because of existing relationships and in other cases because of local legal restrictions or incentives that favor local businesses. 12 table of contents accordingly, our future success depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: adapt our products, services, organization, workforce and sales strategies to fit localities throughout the world, particularly in high growth emerging markets; identify emerging technological and other trends in our target end-markets; and develop or acquire, manufacture and bring competitive products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. adapting our businesses to serve more local markets will require us to invest considerable resources in building our distribution channels and engineering and manufacturing capabilities in those markets to ensure that we can address customer demand. even when we invest in growing our business in local markets, we may not be successful for any number of reasons, including competitive pressure from regional and local businesses that may have superior local capabilities or products that are produced more locally at lower cost. our ability to develop or acquire new products and services can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis. moreover, as we introduce new products, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in the design of a product or in its application to a specified use, which could result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. even after introduction, new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. as a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance and our brand images could suffer. in addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. as a result, the failure to effectively adapt our products and services to the needs of local markets, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance, the potential for product defects or the obsolescence of our products and services could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, than may be inherent in other businesses. if a customer or third party believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our employees or a security or fire system failure, he or she may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment could be substantial. in particular, because our products and services are intended to protect lives and real and personal property, we may have greater exposure to litigation risks than businesses that provide other consumer and small business products and services. we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our installation, service and monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. however, in the event of litigation with respect to such matters, it is possible that these limitations may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable. we face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business. our business operates and serves consumers worldwide. there are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: economic volatility and the current global economic recession; the difficulty of enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets, especially our intellectual property rights, through non-u.s. legal systems; possibility of unfavorable circumstances from host country laws or regulations; 13 table of contents fluctuations in revenues, operating margins and other financial measures due to currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency and earnings repatriation; trade protection measures, import or export restrictions, licensing requirements and local fire and security codes and standards; increased costs and risks of developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a number of foreign operations as a result of distance as well as language and cultural differences; issues related to occupational safety and adherence to local labor laws and regulations; potentially adverse tax developments; longer payment cycles; changes in the general political, social and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; the presence of corruption in certain countries; and fluctuations in available municipal funding in those instances where a project is government financed. one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in order to manage our day-to-day operations, we must overcome cultural and language barriers and assimilate different business practices. in addition, we are required to create compensation programs, employment policies and other administrative programs that comply with laws of multiple countries. we also must communicate and monitor standards and directives across our global network. our failure to successfully manage our geographically diverse operations could impair our ability to react quickly to changing business and market conditions and to enforce compliance with standards and procedures, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. a significant portion of our revenue and certain of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. certain of the foreign currencies to which we have exposure have undergone significant devaluation in the past, which can reduce the value of our local monetary assets, reduce the u.s. dollar value of our local cash flow and potentially reduce the u.s. dollar value of future local net income. although we intend to enter into forward exchange contracts to economically hedge some of our risks associated with transactions denominated in certain foreign currencies, no assurances can be made that exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we are a large buyer of metals and other non-metal commodities, including fossil fuels for our manufacturing operations and our vehicle fleet, the prices of which have fluctuated significantly in recent years. increases in the prices of some of these commodities could increase the costs of manufacturing our products and providing our services. we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers or otherwise effectively manage price volatility and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, in a declining price environment, our operating margins may contract because we account for inventory using the first-in, first-out method. 14 table of contents we monitor these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. in some cases, we may enter into hedge contracts to insulate our results of operations from these fluctuations. these hedges are subject to the risk that our counterparty may not perform. as a result, changes in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business strategy includes acquiring companies and making investments that complement our existing business. these acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. we will continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of product and services offerings. we cannot assure you that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. nor can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. acquisitions and investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities. it may be difficult for us to complete transactions quickly and to integrate acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as such acquisitions may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges. a significant percentage of our future growth is anticipated to come from emerging markets, and if we are unable to expand our operations in emerging markets, our growth rate could be negatively affected. one aspect of our growth strategy is to seek significant growth in emerging markets, including china, india, latin america and the middle east, which in turn depends on economic and political conditions in those markets. emerging markets generally involve greater financial and operational risks than more mature markets, where legal systems are more developed and familiar to us. in some cases, emerging markets have greater political and economic volatility, greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, are more susceptible to corruption, and are locations where it may be more difficult to impose corporate standards and procedures. negative or uncertain political climates in developing and emerging markets could also adversely affect us. we cannot guarantee that our growth strategy will be successful. if we are unable to manage the risks inherent in our growth strategy in emerging markets, including civil unrest, international hostilities, natural disasters, security breaches and failure to maintain compliance with multiple legal and regulatory systems, our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. 15 table of contents failure to maintain and upgrade the security of our information and technology networks, including personally identifiable and other information; non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such information; or a violation of the company's privacy and security policies with respect to such information, could adversely affect us. we are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and, in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers, stockholders and employees. the legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain such information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. a significant actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of customer, stockholder, employee or our data, whether by third parties or as a result of employee malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory action against us. in addition, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for business-to-business and business-to-consumer electronic commerce. security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our operations. increasingly, our security products and services are accessed through the internet, and security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services via the internet may affect us and could be detrimental to our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. we cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. we are continuously upgrading and consolidating our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality and acquiring new systems with new functionality. these types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, including impairment of our ability to fulfill customer orders, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of materials, components and equipment required for our manufacturing activities at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, or if our manufacturing capacity does not meet demand, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may suffer. we purchase materials, components and equipment from unrelated parties for use in our manufacturing operations. if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of these items at competitive prices and quality and on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of product to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our material or manufacturing costs may increase. in addition, because we cannot always immediately adapt our cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. any of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 table of contents failure to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. our culture and guiding principles focus on continuously training, motivating and developing employees, and in particular we strive to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified engineers and managers to handle the day-to-day operations of a highly diversified organization. many of our manufacturing processes, and many of the integrated solutions we offer, are highly technical in nature. our ability to expand or maintain our business depends on our ability to hire, train and retain engineers and other technical professionals with the skills necessary to understand and adapt to the continuously developing needs of our customers. this includes developing talent and leadership capabilities in emerging markets, where the depth of skilled employees is often limited and competition for resources is intense. our geographic expansion strategy in emerging markets depends on our ability to attract, retain and integrate qualified managers and engineers. if we fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience excessive turnover, we may experience declining sales, manufacturing delays or other inefficiencies, increased recruiting, training and relocation costs and other difficulties, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. we may be required to recognize substantial impairment charges in the future. pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we are required to assess our goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets periodically to determine whether they are impaired. disruptions to our business, unfavorable end-market conditions and protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in material charges for goodwill and other asset impairments. we maintain significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, and we believe these balances are recoverable. however, fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to change. impairments to one or more of our reporting units could occur in future periods whether or not connected with the annual impairment analysis. future impairment charges could materially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our residential and commercial security businesses may experience higher rates of customer attrition, which may reduce our future revenue and cause us to change the estimated useful lives of assets related to our security monitoring customers, increasing our depreciation and amortization expense. if our residential security customers (located outside of north america) or our commercial security customers are dissatisfied with our products or services and switch to competitive products or services, or disconnect for other reasons, our recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services we provide. we amortize the costs of acquired monitoring contracts and related customer relationships based on the estimated life of the customer relationships. internally generated residential and commercial pools are similarly depreciated. if customer disconnect rates were to rise significantly, we may be required to accelerate the depreciation and amortization of subscriber system assets and intangible assets, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we continually evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain 17 table of contents environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. in addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and any divestiture we undertake could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force. we employ more than 70,000 people worldwide. approximately 15% of these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works council. although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and works councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works council, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. additionally, a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could materially and adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. stoppages by employees of our customers could also result in reduced demand for our products. a material disruption of our operations, particularly at our monitoring and/or manufacturing facilities, could adversely affect our business. if our operations, particularly at our monitoring facilities and/or manufacturing facilities, were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, sabotage, adverse weather conditions, public health crises, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to effectively respond to alarm signals, fill customer orders and otherwise meet obligations to or demand from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to fill customer orders, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. we maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. however, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-offs of adt and tyco flow control. although we believe that separating the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada and the flow control business by means of the spin-offs, and combining the flow control business with pentair's business, will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to tyco and its shareholders, the spin-offs may not provide the results on the scope or on the scale we anticipate or could prove more costly than anticipated, and the assumed benefits of the spin-offs and the merger may not be fully realized. accordingly, the spin-offs and the merger might not provide tyco and its shareholders benefits or value in excess of the benefits and value that might have been created or realized had tyco retained the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada and/or the flow control business or undertaken another strategic alternative 18 table of contents involving the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada and/or the flow control business. we have entered into non-compete and non-solicit agreements with adt that prohibit us from competing with adt in the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada for two years following the distributions. the adt separation and distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs includes non-compete provisions pursuant to which we are prohibited from competing with adt in the residential and small business security business in the united states and canada for two years from the date of the distributions. in addition, the adt separation and distribution agreement contains non-solicitation provisions preventing us from soliciting adt's residential and small business customers in the united states and canada for two years following the distributions. this effectively prevents us from expanding our business into the residential and small business market in the affected markets and jurisdictions during the two years following the distributions. we recently re-branded our north american commercial security business to tyco integrated security and no longer own the right to use the adt&reg; brand name in the united states and canada. prior to the spin-offs, we re-branded our north american commercial security business to tyco integrated security. there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve name recognition or status under our new brand that is comparable to the recognition and status previously enjoyed. the failure of these initiatives could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, resulting in reduced revenues. in addition, as a result of the spin-offs, we own the adt&reg; brand name in jurisdictions outside of the united states and canada, and adt owns the brand name in the united states and canada. although we have entered agreements with adt designed to protect the value of the adt&reg; brand, we cannot assure you that actions taken by adt will not negatively impact the value of the brand outside of the united states and canada. these factors expose us to the risk that the adt&reg; brand name could suffer reputational damage or devaluation for reasons outside of our control, including adt's business conduct in the united states and canada. any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. risks related to legal, regulatory and compliance matters we are subject to a variety of claims and litigation that could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the normal course of our business, we are subject to claims and lawsuits, including from time to time claims for damages related to product liability and warranties, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, litigation alleging anti-competitive behavior, and litigation related to employee matters and commercial disputes. in certain circumstances, patent infringement and anti-trust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. furthermore, we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. if any of our products prove to be defective, we may also be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. the defense of these lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of our management's attention. in addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies or suffer from adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 table of contents our businesses operate in a regulated industry. our operations and employees are subject to various u.s. federal, state and local licensing laws, fire and security codes and standards and other laws and regulations. in certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. the loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have an adverse effect on us. furthermore, our systems generally must meet fire and building codes in order to be installed, and it is possible that our current or future products will fail to meet such codes, which could require us to make costly modifications to our products or to forgo marketing in certain jurisdictions. changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. in addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. if laws and regulations were to change or if we or our products failed to comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our international operations are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations. due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes regulations issued by the u.s. customs and border protection, the u.s. department of commerce's bureau of industry and security, the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets control and various non u.s. governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, as applicable. no assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. in addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. we could be adversely affected by violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws outside the united states. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the "fcpa") and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice ("doj") and the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"), increased enforcement activity by non-u.s. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. we operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. because many of our customers and end users are involved in infrastructure construction and energy production, they are often subject to increased scrutiny by regulators. we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third party intermediaries. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the fcpa, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. 20 table of contents furthermore, we recently settled charges related to alleged fcpa violations with the doj and sec and agreed to pay approximately $26 million in fines, disgorgement and prejudgment interest to the doj and sec. in connection with the settlement, we entered into a consent with the sec and a non-prosecution agreement with the doj, and a subsidiary of ours (which is no longer part of tyco as a result of the 2012 separation) pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to violate the fcpa. pursuant to the non-prosecution agreement, we have acknowledged that a number of our subsidiaries made payments, both directly and indirectly, to government officials in order to obtain and retain business with private and state-owned entities, and falsely described the payments in the subsidiaries' books, records and accounts. the non-prosecution agreement also acknowledges tyco's timely, voluntary and complete disclosure to the doj, and our cooperation with the doj's investigation including a global internal investigation concerning bribery and related misconduct and extensive remediation. under the non-prosecution agreement, we have also agreed to cooperate with and report periodically to the doj concerning our compliance efforts, and to continue to implement an enhanced compliance program and internal controls designed to prevent and detect fcpa violations. notwithstanding our settlement of the doj and sec investigations, we may be subject to allegations of fcpa violations in the future, and we may be subject to commercial impacts such as lost revenue from customers who decline to do business with us as a result of our entry into the non-prosecution agreement or otherwise as a result of these compliance matters. if so, or if we are unable to comply with the provisions of the non-prosecution agreement, we may be subject to additional investigation or enforcement by the doj or sec. in such a case, we could be subject to material fines, injunctions on future conduct, the imposition of a compliance monitor, or suffer other criminal or civil penalties or adverse impacts, including being subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our failure to satisfy international trade compliance regulations may adversely affect us. our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders on a regular basis. from time to time, we obtain or receive information alleging improper activity in connection with imports or exports. our policy mandates strict compliance with u.s. and international trade laws. when we receive information alleging improper activity, our policy is to investigate that information and respond appropriately, including, if warranted, reporting our findings to relevant governmental authorities. nonetheless, we cannot provide assurance that our policies and procedures will always protect us from actions that would violate u.s. and/or foreign laws. such improper actions could subject the company to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges, and could damage our reputation and our business prospects. we are subject to product liability claims relating to products we manufacture or install. these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities and reduce our profitability. we face exposure to product liability claims in the event that any of our products results in personal injury or property damage. in addition, if any of our products prove to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products, which could result in significant unexpected costs. any insurance we maintain may not be available on terms acceptable to us or such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. any claim or product recall could result in adverse publicity against us, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection systems to operate as expected. the nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. in an attempt to reduce this risk, our alarm monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances. we cannot provide assurance, however, that these limitations will be 21 table of contents enforced. losses from such litigation could be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we and certain of our subsidiaries, along with numerous other companies, are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials. these cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were attached to or used with asbestos-containing components manufactured by third parties. each case typically names between dozens to hundreds of corporate defendants. while we have observed an increase in the number of these lawsuits over the past several years, including lawsuits by plaintiffs with mesothelioma-related claims, a large percentage of these suits have not presented viable legal claims and, as a result, have been dismissed by the courts. the company's historical strategy has been to mount a vigorous defense aimed at having unsubstantiated suits dismissed, and, where appropriate, settling suits before trial. although a large percentage of litigated suits have been dismissed, we cannot predict the extent to which we will be successful in resolving lawsuits in the future. in addition, we continue to assess our strategy for resolving asbestos claims. due to the number of claims and limited amount of assets at one of the company's non-operating subsidiaries, the company is pursuing alternatives for this subsidiary, including a negotiated settlement with representatives of all current and future asbestos claimants against such subsidiary. while the company has not finalized its approach, if the company is ultimately successful with this alternative, it will likely assign rights to certain insurance assets and make a cash payment in order to fully resolve the claims against the subsidiary. unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we currently record an estimated liability related to pending claims and claims estimated to be received over the next fifteen years, including related defense costs, based on a number of key assumptions and estimation methodologies. these assumptions are derived from claims experience over the past three years and reflect our expectations about future claim activities over the next fifteen years. these assumptions about the future may or may not prove accurate, and accordingly, we may incur additional liabilities in the future. a change in one or more of the inputs or the methodology that we use to estimate the asbestos liability could materially change the estimated liability and associated cash flows for pending and future claims. although it is possible that the company will incur additional costs for asbestos claims filed beyond the next fifteen years, we do not believe there is a reasonable basis for estimating those costs at this time. on a quarterly and annual basis, we perform analyses to review and update as appropriate, the underlying assumptions. we also record an asset that represents our best estimate of probable recoveries from insurers or other responsible parties for the estimated asbestos liabilities. there are significant assumptions made in developing estimates of asbestos-related recoveries, such as policy triggers, policy or contract interpretation, success in litigation in certain cases, the methodology for allocating claims to policies, and the continued solvency of the insurers or other responsible parties. the assumptions underlying the recorded asset may not prove accurate, and as a result, actual performance by our insurers and other responsible parties could result in lower receivables and cash flows expected to reduce our asbestos costs. due to these uncertainties, as well as our inability to reasonably estimate any additional asbestos liability for claims that may be filed beyond the next fifteen years, it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the cost, nor potential recoveries, of resolving the pending and all unasserted asbestos claims. additionally, we believe it is possible that the cost of asbestos claims filed beyond the next fifteen years, net of expected recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 22 table of contents our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation and violations. we are subject to numerous u.s. federal, state, local and non-u.s. environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other things: the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials; emissions or discharges of substances into the environment; investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; and the health and safety of our employees. we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. if we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. in addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. we have received notification from the united states environmental protection agency and from state environmental agencies, that conditions at several sites where we and others disposed of hazardous substances require cleanup and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for the cost of cleanup of those sites and/or for natural resource damages. we have projects underway at several current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations by us or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. these projects relate primarily to a variety of activities, including: solvent, oil, metal and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and structure decontamination and demolition, including asbestos abatement. these projects involve both remediation expenses and capital improvements. in addition, we remain responsible for certain environmental issues at manufacturing locations previously sold by us. the ultimate cost of cleanup at disposal sites and manufacturing facilities is difficult to predict given uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations and alternative cleanup methods. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. while we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with such laws, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may also be subject to material liabilities for additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities or for existing environmental conditions of which we are not presently aware. we depend on third-party licenses for our products and services. we rely on certain software technology that we license from third parties and use in our products and services to perform key functions and provide critical functionality, particularly in our commercial security business. because our products and services incorporate software developed and maintained by third parties we are, to a certain extent, dependent upon such third parties' ability to maintain or 23 table of contents enhance their current products and services, to ensure that their products are free of defects or security vulnerabilities, to develop new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. further, these third-party technology licenses may not always be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. if our agreements with third-party vendors are not renewed or the third-party software fails to address the needs of our software products and services, we would be required to find alternative software products and services or technologies of equal performance or functionality. we cannot assure that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software if we lose the license to this software, it becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products and services or is otherwise not adequately maintained or updated. furthermore, even if we obtain licenses to alternative software products or services that provide the functionality we need, we may be required to replace hardware installed at our monitoring centers and at our customers' sites, including security system control panels and peripherals, in order to effect our integration of or migration to alternative software products. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. infringement or expiration of our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties, could negatively affect us. we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. we cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology, trade secrets or know-how. for example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the countries in which we operate. in addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our trade secrets, know-how, business strategy and other proprietary information, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. if it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. finally, for those products in our portfolio that rely on patent protection, once a patent has expired, the product is generally open to competition. products under patent protection usually generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected by patents. if we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties. the litigation process is costly and subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. intellectual property lawsuits or claims may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows legislative action by the u.s. congress could adversely affect us. legislative action could be taken by the u.s. congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties, or modify statutes or regulations, upon which we rely, which could materially adversely affect our effective corporate tax rate. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding our incorporation in switzerland or limiting our ability as a swiss company to take advantage of the tax treaties between switzerland and the united states, we could be subject to increased taxation. 24 table of contents police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies. police departments in a limited number of u.s. cities do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance. we have offered affected customers the option of receiving responses from private guard companies, in most cases through contracts with us, which increases the overall cost to customers. if more police departments, whether inside or outside the u.s., were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies, our ability to attract and retain customers could be negatively impacted and our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected. risks related to our liquidity and financial markets disruptions in the financial markets could have adverse effects on us, our customers and our suppliers, by increasing our funding costs or reducing the availability of credit. in the normal course of our business, we may access credit markets for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness, acquisitions, additions to working capital, repurchase of common shares, capital expenditures and investments in our subsidiaries. although we believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet our foreseeable needs, our access to and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the credit markets. in 2009 and 2010, credit markets experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions, and similar disruptions in the credit markets could make financing terms for borrowers unattractive or unavailable. these factors may make it more difficult or expensive for us to access credit markets if the need arises. in addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our suppliers to meet demand for their products or for prospective customers to commence new projects, as customers and suppliers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. disruptions in the financial markets have had adverse effects on other areas of the economy and have led to a slowdown in general economic activity that may continue to adversely affect our businesses. these disruptions may have other unknown adverse effects. based on these conditions, our profitability and our ability to execute our business strategy may be adversely affected. covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us. our bank credit agreements contain customary financial covenants, including a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization and limits on incurrence of liens and subsidiary debt. in addition, the indentures governing our bonds contain customary covenants including limits on negative pledges, subsidiary debt and sale/leaseback transactions. although we believe none of these covenants are restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreements or indentures. upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities or indentures, the lenders or trustees could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of credit facility lenders, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. if the lenders or trustees accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient assets to repay our credit facilities and our other indebtedness. furthermore, acceleration of any obligation under any of our material debt instruments will permit the holders of our other material debt to accelerate their obligations, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. we estimate that our available cash, our cash flow from operations and amounts available to us under our credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for the 25 table of contents foreseeable future. however, material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements arising from litigation and similar contingencies could require additional funding. if such developments require us to obtain additional funding, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional funding that we need on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. such an outcome could have important consequences to you. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other corporate purposes, including dividend payments; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; restrict our ability to introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; and increase the difficulty and/or cost to us of refinancing our indebtedness. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could affect our financial health, and may decrease our profitability. we may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, subject to restrictions in our debt agreements. if our cash flow from operations is less than we anticipate, or if our cash requirements are more than we expect, we may require more financing. however, debt or equity financing may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of additional capital stock, the terms of the debt or capital stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. the terms of the debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. if we raise funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in us would decline. if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial health, which could negatively affect your investment in us. risks relating to tax matters examinations and audits by tax authorities, including the irs, could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries' income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. in connection with these examinations, tax authorities, including the irs, have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments, in particular, with respect to tax years preceding the 2007 separation. we are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. although we expect to resolve a substantial number of the proposed tax adjustments with the irs, a few significant items are expected to remain open with respect to the audit of the 1997 through 2004 years. as of the date hereof, it is unlikely that we will be able to resolve these open items, which primarily involve the treatment of certain intercompany transactions during the period related to the audits, through the irs appeals process. as a result, we may be required to litigate these matters. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the united states and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. these tax liabilities are reflected 26 table of contents net of related tax loss carry-forwards. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. we have assessed our obligations under the 2007 tax sharing agreement and determined that the recorded liability is sufficient to cover the indemnifications made by us under such agreement. however, such amount could differ materially from amounts that are actually determined to be due, and any such difference could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we share responsibility for certain of our, covidien's and te connectivity's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including june 29, 2007. in connection with the 2007 separation, tyco entered into a tax sharing agreement (the "2007 tax sharing agreement") that governs the rights and obligations of each party with respect to certain pre-2007 separation tax liabilities and certain tax liabilities arising in connection with the 2007 separation. more specifically, tyco, covidien and te connectivity share 27%, 42% and 31%, respectively, of income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to tyco's, covidien's and te connectivity's u.s. and certain non-u.s. income tax returns and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the 2007 separation. in addition, in the event the 2007 separation, or certain related transactions, is determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the 2007 separation by tyco, covidien, or te connectivity, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on tyco, covidien, or te connectivity as a result thereof. if none of the companies is responsible for such failure, then tyco, covidien, and te connectivity would be responsible for such taxes in the same manner and in the same proportions as other shared tax liabilities under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities are generally shared equally among the parties. if any party to the 2007 tax sharing agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the 2007 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, covidien's and te connectivity's tax liabilities. as noted above, with respect to years prior to and including the 2007 separation, tax authorities have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments that are generally subject to the sharing provisions of the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which may require tyco to make a payment to a taxing authority, covidien or te connectivity. tyco has recorded a liability as of september 28, 2012 which it has assessed and believes is adequate to cover the payments that tyco may be required to make under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. however, the ultimate resolution of these matters is uncertain and could result in tyco being responsible for a greater amount than it expects under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. we share responsibility for certain of our, pentair's and adt's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date. in connection with the distributions, we entered into the 2012 tax sharing agreement with pentair and adt that is separate from the 2007 tax sharing agreement and which govern the rights and obligations of tyco, adt and pentair for certain tax liabilities before the distributions, including tyco's obligations under the 2007 tax sharing agreement. under the 2012 tax sharing agreement tyco, pentair and adt share (i) certain pre-distribution income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to adt's u.s., tyco flow control's and tyco's income tax returns, and (ii) payments required to be made by tyco with respect to the 2007 tax sharing agreement, excluding approximately $175 million of pre-2012 separation related tax liabilities that were anticipated to be 27 table of contents paid prior to the 2012 separation (collectively, "shared tax liabilities"). tyco will be responsible for the first $500 million of shared tax liabilities. pentair and adt will share 42% and 58%, respectively, of the next $225 million of shared tax liabilities. tyco, pentair and adt will share 52.5% 20% and 27.5%, respectively, of shared tax liabilities above $725 million. all costs and expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will generally be shared 20%, 27.5%, and 52.5% by pentair, adt and tyco, respectively. as of september 28, 2012, tyco established liabilities representing the fair market value of its obligations under the 2012 tax sharing arrangement which is recorded in other liabilities in the company's consolidated balance sheet with an offset to tyco shareholders' equity. in addition, we entered into a non-income tax sharing agreement with adt in connection with the adt distribution. to the extent we are responsible for any liability under these agreements, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or our effective tax rate in future reporting periods. the 2012 tax sharing agreement provides that, if any party were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of certain taxes that may arise as a result of the failure of the distributions to be tax free (such taxes, as defined in the 2012 tax sharing agreement, "distribution taxes"), each non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. in addition, if another party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, pentair's and adt's tax liabilities. if the distributions or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our shareholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or both adt and pentair could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. tyco has received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding the u.s. federal income tax consequences of the distributions to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the distributions will qualify as tax-free under sections 355 and/or 361 of the code, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of adt common stock or of pentair common shares. the private letter ruling also provides that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions will qualify for favorable treatment under the code. in addition to obtaining the private letter ruling, tyco has received an opinion from the law firm of mcdermott will &amp; emery llp confirming the tax-free status of the distributions for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the private letter ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, pentair and adt regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distributions or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distributions or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock ownership (which might take into account changes in pentair stock ownership resulting from the merger) or asset ownership after the distributions. an opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the opinion. in addition, the opinions will be based on current law, and cannot be relied upon if current law changes with retroactive effect. if the distributions ultimately are determined to be taxable, the distributions could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to you for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and you could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, we would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the pentair common shares and the shares of adt common stock distributed to our shareholders on the distribution date over our tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally 28 table of contents would not be subject to u.s. federal income tax. however, we, pentair or adt could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the distributions are taxable. in addition, under the terms of the 2012 tax sharing agreement, in the event the distributions or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable as a result of actions taken after the distributions by us, pentair or adt, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, pentair or adt as a result thereof. if such failure is not the result of actions taken after the distributions by us, pentair or adt, then we, pentair and adt will share the liability in the manner and according to the sharing percentages set forth in the 2012 tax sharing agreement. such tax amounts could be significant. in the event that any party to the 2012 tax sharing agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. if the distributions or the merger are determined to be taxable for swiss withholding tax purposes, we, adt and pentair could incur significant swiss withholding tax liabilities. generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to tyco's shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder. as of january 1, 2011, distributions to shareholders out of qualifying contributed surplus accumulated on or after january 1, 1997 are exempt from swiss withholding tax, if certain conditions are met ( kapitaleinlageprinzip ). tyco has obtained a ruling from the swiss federal tax administration confirming that the distributions qualify as payment out of such qualifying contributed surplus and no amount will be withheld by tyco when making the distributions. we have obtained tax rulings from the swiss tax administrations confirming that the merger is a transaction that is generally tax-free for swiss federal, cantonal, and communal tax purposes (including with respect to swiss stamp tax and swiss withholding tax). however, these tax rulings rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from tyco. notwithstanding these tax rulings, the swiss federal tax administration could determine on audit that the distributions or the merger should be treated as a taxable transaction for withholding tax or other tax purposes if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated. if the distributions or the merger ultimately are determined to be taxable for withholding tax or other tax purposes, tyco and tyco shareholders could incur material swiss withholding tax liabilities that could significantly detract from, or eliminate, the benefits of the distributions and the merger. in addition, tyco could become liable to indemnify pentair for part of any swiss withholding tax liabilities to the extent provided under the 2012 tax sharing agreement. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the distributions because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted after the distributions in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distributions. even if the distributions otherwise qualify for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate-level gain to tyco and certain of its affiliates under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares, pentair's shares or adt's shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distributions. any acquisitions or issuances of our shares, pentair's shares or adt's shares within two years after the distributions generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, pentair or adt may be able to rebut that presumption. to preserve the tax-free treatment to us of the distributions, under the 2012 tax sharing agreement that we entered with pentair and adt, we are prohibited from taking or failing to take any action that prevents the distributions and related transactions from being tax-free. further, for the 29 table of contents two-year period following the distributions, without obtaining the consent of pentair and adt, a private letter ruling from the irs or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, we may be prohibited from: approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our common shares when combined with any other changes in ownership of our common shares, redeeming equity securities, selling or otherwise disposing of more than 35% of our assets, or engaging in certain internal transactions. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. moreover, the 2012 tax sharing agreement also provides that we will be responsible for any taxes imposed on pentair or any of its affiliates or on adt or any of its affiliates as a result of the failure of the distributions or the internal transactions to qualify for favorable treatment under the code if such failure is attributable to certain actions taken after the distributions by or in respect of us, any of our affiliates or our shareholders. risks relating to our jurisdiction of incorporation in switzerland swiss laws differ from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to holders of tyco's securities. because of differences between swiss law and u.s. state and federal laws and differences between the governing documents of swiss companies and those incorporated in the u.s., it may not be possible to enforce in switzerland, court judgments obtained in the united states against tyco based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the united states. as a result, in a lawsuit based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws, u.s. investors may find it difficult to: effect service within the united states upon tyco or its directors and officers located outside the united states; enforce judgments obtained against those persons in u.s. courts or in courts in jurisdictions outside the united states; and enforce against those persons in switzerland, whether in original actions or in actions for the enforcement of judgments of u.s. courts, civil liabilities based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws. original actions against persons in switzerland based solely upon the u.s. federal or state securities laws are governed, among other things, by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on international private law. this statute provides that the application of provisions of non-swiss law by the courts in switzerland shall be precluded if the result was incompatible with swiss public policy. also, mandatory provisions of swiss law may be applicable regardless of any other law that would otherwise apply. switzerland and the united states do not have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition of and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of a judgment of the courts of the united states in switzerland is governed by the principles set forth in the swiss federal act on private international law. this statute provides in principle that a judgment rendered by a non-swiss court may be enforced in switzerland only if: the foreign court had jurisdiction pursuant to the swiss federal act on private international law; the judgment of such foreign court has become final and non-appealable; the judgment does not contravene swiss public policy; 30 table of contents the court procedures and the service of documents leading to the judgment were in accordance with the due process of law; and no proceeding involving the same position and the same subject matter was first brought in switzerland, or adjudicated in switzerland, or that it was earlier adjudicated in a third state and this decision is recognizable in switzerland. our status as a swiss corporation may limit our flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management and may cause us to be unable to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to swiss withholding tax, or at all. swiss law allows our shareholders to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without additional shareholder approval, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed by the shareholders every two years. our current authorized share capital will expire on march 9, 2013. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares. swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. in the event we need to raise common equity capital at a time when the trading price of our shares is below the par value of the shares (currently chf 6.70 (or approximately $7.14 based on the exchange rate in effect on october 1, 2012)), we will need to obtain approval of shareholders to decrease the par value of our shares. as of october 1, 2012, the closing price of our ordinary shares on the nyse was $28.50. we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to obtain such shareholder approval in a timely manner. obtaining shareholder approval would require filing a preliminary proxy statement with the sec and convening a meeting of shareholders which would delay any capital raising plans. swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. for example, dividends must be approved by shareholders. these swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. under swiss law, a swiss corporation may pay dividends only if the corporation has sufficient distributable profits from previous fiscal years, or if the corporation has distributable reserves, each as evidenced by its audited statutory balance sheet. distributable reserves are generally booked either as "free reserves" or as "contributed surplus" (contributions received from shareholders) in the "reserve from capital contributions." furthermore, generally, swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to our shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder, unless the distribution is made to shareholders (i) by way of a reduction of par value or (ii) assuming certain conditions are met, out of qualifying contributed surplus (kapitaleinlage) accumulated on or after january 1, 1997. payments may be made out of registered share capital the aggregate par value of a company's registered shares only by way of a capital reduction. tyco's freely distributable reserves based on its swiss statutory account for fiscal year 2012 are chf 2.0 billion, and its registered share capital is approximately chf 3.3 billion. tyco's freely distributable reserves will be reduced by any additional distributions approved by our shareholders, including any ordinary cash dividends approved by our shareholders at the annual general meeting in march 2013. if we are not successful in our efforts to make dividends through a reduction of par value or out of qualifying contributed surplus, then any dividends paid by us generally will be subject to a swiss federal withholding tax. the withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the swiss federal tax administration. a u.s. holder that qualifies for benefits under the convention between the united states of america and the swiss confederation for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on income, which we refer to as the "u.s.-swiss treaty," may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in the case of qualified pension funds). even if we are able to pay dividends in the future, 31 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will meet the requirements to pay such dividends free from swiss withholding tax or that swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. we cannot provide assurance that the current swiss law with respect to distributions out of qualifying contributed surplus will not be changed or that a change in swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of qualifying contributed surplus becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. there are currently motions pending in the swiss parliament that purport to limit the distribution of qualifying contributed surplus. in addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available to us for par value reductions and the amount of qualifying contributed surplus available to us to pay out as distributions is limited. under present swiss tax laws, repurchases of shares for the purposes of cancellation are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% swiss withholding tax on the difference between the repurchase price and the par value except, since january 1, 2011, to the extent attributable to qualifying contributed surplus ( kapitaleinlagereserven ) if any. if, and to the extent that, the repurchase of shares is out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves, the swiss withholding becomes due. no partial liquidation treatment applies, and no withholding tax is triggered, if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares. however, should such treasury shares remain in treasury for six years, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six year period. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of conducting business, we are exposed to certain risks associated with potential changes in market conditions. these risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. accordingly, we have established a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal exposures to which we believe we are subject. we seek to manage these risks through the use of financial derivative instruments. our portfolio of derivative financial instruments may, from time to time, include forward foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign currency options, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and forward commodity contracts. derivative financial instruments related to interest rate sensitivity of debt obligations, intercompany cross border transactions and anticipated non-functional currency cash flows are used with the goal of mitigating a significant portion of these exposures when it is cost effective to do so. we do not execute transactions or utilize derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. further, to reduce the risk that a counterparty will be unable to honor its contractual obligations to us, we only enter into contracts with counterparties having strong investment grade long-term credit ratings from standard &amp; poor's and moody's. these counterparties are generally financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one party. foreign currency exposures we hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates related to operating entities through the use of forward foreign currency exchange contracts. additionally, for our corporate financing entities we manage the foreign currency exposure through a combination of multi-currency notional pool and forward contracts. our largest exposure to foreign exchange rates exists primarily with the british pound, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar and mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. the market risk related to the forward foreign currency exchange contract is measured by estimating the potential impact of a 10% change in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates. the rates used to perform this analysis were based on the market rates in effect on september 28, 2012. a 10% appreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $7 million net decrease in the fair value of the contracts. conversely, a 10% depreciation of the u.s. dollar relative to the local currency exchange rates would result in a $9 million net increase in the fair value of the contracts. however, gains or losses on these derivative instruments are economically offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we hedged net investments in certain foreign operations through the use of foreign currency exchange forward contracts. the objective was to minimize the exposure to changes in the value of the foreign currency denominated net investment. as of the quarter ended december 30, 2011, we terminated our net investment hedge. accordingly, the aggregate notional amount of these hedges was nil and approximately $224 million as of september 28, 2012, and september 30, 2011, respectively. as of september 28, 2012 and september 30, 2011, $2.0 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, of intercompany loans have been designated as permanent in nature. for the fiscal years ended september 28, 2012, september 30, 2011 and september 24, 2010, we recorded $48 million of cumulative transaction gain and $2 million and $34 million of cumulative translation losses, respectively, through accumulated other comprehensive loss related to these loans. interest rate exposures we manage interest rate risk through the use of interest rate swap transactions with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties, which are designated as fair value hedges for accounting 66 table of contents purposes. since the third quarter of 2009, tifsa has been entering into interest rate swap transactions with the objective of managing the exposure to interest rate risk by converting interest rates of fixed-rate debt to variable rates. in these contracts, tifsa agrees with financial institutions acting as principal counterparties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated on an agreed-upon notional principal amount. in connection with the debt tenders and redemption during the quarter ended september 28, 2012, tifsa settled all outstanding interest rate swaps. accordingly, as of september 28, 2012 and september 30, 2011, the total gross notional amount of our interest rate swap contracts was nil and $1.2 billion, respectively.