risk factors 13 risk factors risks related to our international operations . sales and marketing our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists, as well as contracts with distributors in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence. in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products. our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to inform, promote and sell our products and services. our technical and veterinary operations specialists provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use, and generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees. these direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. as a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. as of december 31, 2012, our sales organization consisted of approximately 3,300 employees. our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. on a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. we also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners. customers we sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork, poultry and aquaculture operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that typically then sell the products to livestock producers. we primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 9% and 6%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 and no other customer represented more than 4% of our revenues for the same period. 4 | table of contents research and development our research and development operations are comprised of our dedicated veterinary medicine research and development organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development of our products. we spent $409 million in 2012, $427 million in 2011 and $411 million in 2010 on research and development. while the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product r&amp;d continues to play an important role in our growth strategies, the majority of our r&amp;d investment is focused on brand lifecycle development. new product r&amp;d leverages discoveries of agribusiness, academia, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology r&amp;d organizations. our brand lifecycle development leverages our existing product portfolio to expand our product lines by adding new species or claims, achieving approvals in new countries and creating new combinations and reformulations. our ability to leverage both the discoveries of other industries and of our existing r&amp;d generally leads to a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and more predictable r&amp;d process. in addition, our other r&amp;d activities include the development of branded generic products, genetics and diagnostics, as well as biodevices and engineering investments for in ovo applications. we prioritize our r&amp;d spending on an annual basis with the goal of transparency and alignment of research and business objectives and do not disaggregate our r&amp;d operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. instead, we allocate capital based on return on investment criteria, taking into account customer needs, revenues and profitability potential, the probability of technical and regulatory success, and timing of launch. a centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend without a focus on spending by research stage or by therapeutic area. this comprehensive view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. prior to the ipo, we entered into a r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer pursuant to which we will maintain access to pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to develop new products, subject to certain restrictions. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer research and development collaboration and license agreement . in addition, we intend to explore opportunities to enter into collaboration agreements and external alliances with other parties. as of december 31, 2012, we employed approximately 1,000 employees in our global r&amp;d operations. our r&amp;d headquarters is located in kalamazoo, michigan. we have r&amp;d operations co-located with manufacturing sites in melbourne, australia; louvain-la-neuve, belgium; guarulhos, brazil; jilin, china; olot, spain and san diego, ca; charles city, ia and lincoln, ne in the u.s. we co-locate r&amp;d operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. in addition, we maintained r&amp;d operations in zaventem, belgium; o paulo, brazil; victoria, british columbia, canada; mumbai and new delhi, india; and college park, md and durham, nc in the u.s. as part of the separation, pfizer conveyed to us its interest in each of these r&amp;d facilities, with the exception of our mumbai, india facility, which we expect pfizer to transfer to us for agreed upon cash consideration, and, in the interim, we will lease the facility from pfizer. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer mumbai, india interim lease agreement . each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents. many of our research programs involve an external partnership, often with funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. we are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental direct and indirect expertise in, as well as investment for, such external partnerships. depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models. manufacturing and supply chain prior to the separation, our products were manufactured at both sites operated by pfizer and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as cmos. in connection with the separation, pfizer transferred 29 manufacturing sites to us. these 29 sites consist of all of the sites operated by pfizer that, immediately prior to the separation, predominantly manufactured animal health products. we refer to these 29 sites as our global manufacturing network. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer master manufacturing and supply agreements. our global manufacturing network utilizes centralized oversight of a system of 13 anchor and 16 satellite manufacturing sites to maximize cost efficiencies. 5 | table of contents our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites: anchor sites satellite sites site location site location catania italy campinas brazil charles city iowa, u.s. durham north carolina, u.s. chicago heights illinois, u.s. eagle grove iowa, u.s. guarulhos* brazil hannibal missouri, u.s. haridwar india hsinchu taiwan jilin** china laurinburg north carolina, u.s. kalamazoo*** michigan, u.s. longmont colorado, u.s. lincoln nebraska, u.s. medolla italy louvain-la-neuve belgium salisbury maryland, u.s. melbourne australia san diego california, u.s. olot spain shenzhou china suzhou china van buren arkansas, u.s. willow island west virginia, u.s. victoria british columbia, canada wellington new zealand white hall illinois, u.s. yantai china * this site is owned by us and leased back to pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer brazil lease agreements. ** this site is operated by the jilin pfizer guoyuan joint venture. *** prior to the separation, pfizer's manufacturing site in kalamazoo manufactured both human health and animal health products. since the separation, we own the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture animal health products and pfizer owns the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture human health products. ownership of these facilities was conveyed to us by pfizer as part of the separation, with the exception of our facilities in hannibal, missouri, medolla, italy and san diego, california, which are leased sites. the leasehold interests in these sites were conveyed to us by pfizer as part of the separation. in addition to our global manufacturing network, pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at 14 pfizer sites located in 13 countries pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. included in these 14 pfizer sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, where pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a period of time. these 14 pfizer sites consist of sites operated by pfizer that, immediately prior to the separation, predominantly manufactured human health products. the decision to continue manufacturing our products at pfizer sites will be reevaluated in the future based on several factors, including manufacturing costs and the needs of our business. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer master manufacturing and supply agreements. the pfizer sites that continue to manufacture products for us are listed in the table below. all of these sites are owned by pfizer with the exception of the guarulhos, brazil facility which is owned by us and leased back to pfizer. site location amboise france andover massachusetts, u.s. ascoli italy cairo egypt el jadida morocco guarulhos* brazil istanbul turkey jakarta indonesia kalamazoo** michigan, u.s. nagoya japan puurs belgium ringaskiddy ireland valencia venezuela west ryde australia 6 | table of contents * this site is owned by us and leased back to pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer brazil lease agreements. ** prior to the separation, pfizer's manufacturing site in kalamazoo manufactured both human health and animal health products. since the separation, we own the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture animal health products and pfizer owns the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture human health products. our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of cmos. as of december 31, 2012, this network was comprised of approximately 200 cmos , including those centrally managed as well as local cmos. we select cmos based on capacity and financial efficiency analyses, and our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the cmos we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality and are regularly audited. we purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. we utilize distributors as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support. we intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including six sigma and lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. we have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and cmo sites. competition although our business is the largest based on revenues in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions and sectors in which we compete. principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as merck animal health, the animal health division of merck &amp; co., inc. (formerly known as intervet/schering-plough); merial, the animal health division of sanofi s.a.; elanco, the animal health division of eli lilly and company; bayer animal health, the animal health division of bayer ag; novartis animal health, the animal health division of novartis ag; and boehringer ingelheim animal health, the animal health division of boehringer ingelheim gmbh. in addition, we compete with hundreds of other animal health product producers throughout the world. the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. for example, the level of generic competition is higher in europe and certain emerging markets than in the u.s. however, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. the reasons for this include the smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. in addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians. our livestock products tend to experience lower generic competition than our companion animal products for several reasons: livestock producers tend to be loyal to medicines and vaccines that have been demonstrated to be efficacious; as medicines and vaccines are a small portion of a livestock producer's total production costs and ineffective medicines and vaccines could result in the loss of animals, causing disproportionate harm to such producer's investment. therefore, we believe that livestock producers value brand name medicines and vaccines and are reluctant to try alternatives to methods that have already been proven to be reliably effective; the economic benefits of our livestock medicines and vaccines are easier to measure because livestock production success can be measured solely in economic terms, with the goal of livestock medicines and vaccines tied to better food production; and the success of medicines and vaccines used on livestock is generally observed more quickly. the importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. as a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity. intellectual property our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. we rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate. our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 4,000 granted patents and 2,000 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with concentration in our major market countries as well as other countries with strong patent systems, such as australia, brazil, canada, europe, japan and the u.s. many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our own and pfizer's work, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were at least partially developed by, and are licensed to us, by third parties. patents for individual products extend for varying periods depending on the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. several patents cover the ceftiofur product line, including formulation and use patents that begin expiring in the u.s. in 2015, with others extending until 2024. draxxin and convenia are covered by patents in the u.s. with terms that expire in 2021 and 2023, respectively. the compound patent on doramectin, which is the active ingredient in dectomax, an antiparasitic, has expired in 7 | table of contents all regions; however, process patents and the injectable formulation patent for this product do not expire in the u.s. until 2020 and 2016, respectively. the compound patent on selamectin, which is active in revolution, a parasiticide, expires in the u.s., canada and europe in 2014. additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement. in order to facilitate the separation and allow pfizer and our operations to continue with minimal interruption, pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we license to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of pfizer's trademarks and we granted pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time following the completion of the ipo. prior to the separation, as a business unit of pfizer, we had the ability to leverage pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to identify, research and develop compounds suitable as new product candidates for the animal health field. as part of the separation, we entered into an r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer pursuant to which, subject to certain restrictions, we have continued access to pfizer's compound library and database for a period of seven years and, subject to pfizer's approval, we have the possibility to exclusively license compounds from pfizer that we develop under the r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement using portions of pfizer's proprietary compound library and database. we believe that this agreement may help bolster our r&amp;d capability to support the continued long-term viability of our product pipeline for animal health. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. we currently maintain more than 9,500 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals. regulatory the sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. to maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. in the majority of our markets, the relevant health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. united states united states food and drug administration (fda). the regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the u.s. is the center for veterinary medicine (cvm), housed within the fda. all manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. the fda's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a freedom of information summary. post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the cvm's surveillance and compliance group. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source. united states department of agriculture (usda). the regulatory body in the u.s. for veterinary vaccines is the usda. the usda's center for veterinary biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. all manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the virus serum toxin act. post-approval monitoring of products is required. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements. environmental protection agency (epa). the main regulatory body in the u.s. for veterinary pesticides is the epa. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the u.s., pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. outside of the united states european union (eu). the european medicines agency (ema) is a decentralized agency of the eu, located in london. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by pharmaceutical companies for use in the eu. the agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. the committee for veterinary medicinal products is responsible for scientific review of the submissions for pharmaceuticals and vaccines. the ema makes the final decision on the approval of products. once granted by the european commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all eu and european economic area-european free trade association states. a series of directives, guidelines and eu pharmacopeia monographs provide the requirements for approval in the eu. in general, these requirements are similar to those in the u.s., requiring demonstrated evidence of purity, safety, efficacy, and consistency of manufacturing processes. 8 | table of contents brazil. the ministry of agriculture, livestock production and supply (mapa) is the regulatory body in brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. mapa's regulatory activities are conducted through the secretary of agricultural defense and its livestock products inspection department. in addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the federal agriculture superintendence. these activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. mapa is one of the most active regulatory agencies in latin america, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as codex alimentarius, world organization for animal health and committee of veterinary medicines for the americas. mapa was also recently invited to be a latin american representative at international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich) meetings. several normative instructions issued by mapa have set regulatory trends in latin america. australia. the australian pesticides and veterinary medicines authority (apvma) is an australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the australian marketplace. previously each state and territory government had its own system of registration. the apvma assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the apvma's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. if the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the apvma will register the product. as well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the apvma reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job users expect and are safe to use. the apvma also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. the review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. in some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being cancelled and the product taken off the market. rest of world. country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. with the exception of the eu, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the fda, usda, eu and other international animal health entities, including the world organization for animal health, codex alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines. global policy and guidance joint fao/who expert committee on food additives. the joint fao/who expert committee on food additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the world health organization (who). they provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. we work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. this in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain. advertising and promotion review. promotion of ethical animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. these rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. we conduct a review of promotion material for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products. food safety inspection service/generally recognized as safe. the fda is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including generally recognized as safe substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. however, although the fda has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the food safety and inspection service, the public health agency in the usda, still retains, under the tenets of the federal meat inspection act and the poultry products inspection act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products. employees as of march 15, 2013, we have more than 9,300 employees worldwide, which includes approximately 3,900 employees in the u.s. and approximately 5,400 in other jurisdictions. some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 50 union employees in the united states. environmental, health and safety we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. certain environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. in addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental 9 | table of contents entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. in connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2012 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows: environmental-related capital expenditures - $2 million other environmental-related expenditures - $14 million however, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. in connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. we have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all. while we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. available information the company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. on our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). information relating to corporate governance at zoetis, including our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; zoetis policies on business conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and principal accounting officer); and code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; and information concerning our directors; ways to communicate by email with our directors; board committees; and committee charters are available on our website. we will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our corporate secretary, zoetis inc., 5 giralda farms, madison, new jersey 07940. information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. the information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this 2012 annual report. recent developments senior notes offering on january 28, 2013, we issued $3.65 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes (the senior notes offering) in a private placement, with an original issue discount of $10 million. the senior notes are comprised of $400 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.150% senior notes due 2016, $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.875% senior notes due 2018, $1.35 billion aggregate principal amount of our 3.250% senior notes due 2023 and $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of our 4.700% senior notes due 2043. we refer to this private placement as the senior notes offering. we sold $2.65 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes through the initial purchasers in the senior notes offering and pfizer transferred $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes, which we issued to pfizer prior to the completion of the senior notes offering, to certain of the initial purchasers, who sold such senior notes through the initial purchasers in the senior notes offering. we paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to pfizer prior to the completion of the ipo. we refer to the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our senior notes that we issued to pfizer as the pfizer-owned notes. instead of selling the pfizer-owned notes directly to the initial purchasers for cash, pfizer first exchanged the pfizer-owned notes with certain of the initial purchasers, which we refer to, in such role, as the debt-for-debt exchange parties, for outstanding indebtedness of pfizer held by the debt-for-debt exchange parties. the debt-for-debt exchange parties then sold the pfizer-owned notes to the initial purchasers for cash. this debt-for-debt exchange occurred on the settlement date of the senior notes offering immediately prior to the settlement of the debt-for-debt exchange parties' sale of the pfizer-owned notes to the initial purchasers. we refer to this exchange as the "debt-for-debt exchange." the senior notes are governed by an indenture and supplemental indenture (collectively, the indenture) between us and deutsche bank trust company americas, as trustee. the indenture contains certain covenants, including limitations on our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur liens or engage in sale leaseback transactions. the indenture also contains restrictions on our ability to consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets. in addition, the indenture contains other customary terms, including certain events of default, upon the occurrence of which, the senior notes may be declared immediately due and payable. pursuant to the indenture, we are able to redeem the senior notes of any series, in whole or in part, at any time by paying a make whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption. pursuant to our tax matters agreement with pfizer, we will 10 | table of contents not be permitted to redeem the 2023 notes pursuant to this optional redemption provision, except under limited circumstances. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer tax matters agreement . upon the occurrence of a change of control of us and a downgrade of the senior notes below an investment grade rating by each of moody's investors service, inc. and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, we are, in certain circumstances, required to make an offer to purchase each of the senior notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes together with accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of repurchase. separation on january 28, 2013, pfizer transferred to us substantially all of the assets and liabilities of its animal health business in exchange for all of our class a and class b common stock, $1.0 billion of the $3.65 billion senior notes and an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the cash proceeds received by us from the remaining $2.65 billion senior notes issued. for additional information regarding the separation transactions see notes to combined financial statements note 19. subsequent events. as a result of the separation, we own or have the right to use substantially all of the assets that were previously used, or held for use, exclusively in pfizer's animal health business, including the following: intellectual property . as part of the separation, pfizer assigned to us ownership of approximately 4,000 patents, 2,000 pending patent applications, and more than 9,500 trademark applications and registrations. in addition, pfizer licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we licensed to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of pfizer's trademarks and we granted pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time. manufacturing facilities . our global manufacturing network consists of 13 anchor manufacturing sites and 16 satellite manufacturing sites. ownership of, or the existing leasehold interest in, these facilities was conveyed to us by pfizer as part of the separation. among these 29 manufacturing sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, which we have leased back to pfizer. certain of our products are currently manufactured at 14 pfizer manufacturing sites, including our guarulhos, brazil facility, and will continue to be supplied to us under the terms of a manufacturing and supply agreement we entered into with pfizer. r&amp;d facilities . we have r&amp;d operations co-located with certain of our manufacturing sites in australia, brazil, belgium, canada, china, spain and the u.s. to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing sites. in addition, we maintain r&amp;d operations at non-manufacturing locations in brazil, belgium, india and the u.s. as part of the separation, pfizer conveyed to us its interest in each of these r&amp;d facilities, with the exception of our mumbai, india facility, which we expect pfizer to transfer to us for agreed upon cash consideration, and, in the interim, we will lease the facility from pfizer. employees . substantially all employees of pfizer who were substantially dedicated to the animal health business have become our employees. however, labor and employment laws or other business considerations in some jurisdictions may impede or delay pfizer from transferring to us employees who are substantially dedicated to the animal health business. in those instances, to the extent permissible under applicable law, we and pfizer have entered into mutually-acceptable arrangements, such as staffing agreements, to provide for continued operation of the business until such time as the employees in those jurisdictions can be transitioned to us. we and pfizer have entered into certain agreements that provide a framework for our ongoing relationship with pfizer. for more information regarding our agreements with pfizer, see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence. initial public offering on february 6, 2013 , an ipo of 99,015,000 shares of our class a common stock (including the exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option) at a price of $26.00 per share was completed. we did not receive any of the net proceeds from the ipo. instead of selling shares of our class a common stock directly to the underwriters for cash in the ipo, pfizer first exchanged the shares of our class a common stock to be sold in the ipo with certain of the underwriters, which we refer to, in such role, as the debt-for-equity exchange parties, for outstanding indebtedness of pfizer held by the debt-for-equity exchange parties. the debt-for-equity exchange parties then sold shares to the underwriters for cash. this debt-for-equity exchange occurred on the settlement date of the ipo immediately prior to the settlement of the debt-for-equity exchange parties' sale of the shares to the underwriters. we refer to this exchange as the "debt-for-equity exchange." immediately following the ipo, there were 99,015,000 outstanding shares of class a common stock and 400,985,000 outstanding shares of class b common stock. the rights of the holders of class a common stock and class b common stock are identical, except with respect to voting and conversion rights. the holders of class a common stock and class b common stock are each entitled to one vote per share for all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders other than with respect to the election of directors. with respect to the election of directors, the holders of class b common stock are entitled to ten votes per share, and the holders of class a common stock are entitled to one vote per share. each share of class b common stock held by pfizer or one of its subsidiaries is convertible into one share of class a common stock at any time but will not be convertible if held by any other holder. currently, pfizer owns 100% of our outstanding class b common stock and no shares of our class a common stock, giving pfizer 80.2% of the economic interest and the combined voting power in shares of our outstanding common stock other than with respect to the election of directors and 97.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock with respect to the election of directors. commercial paper program in february 2013, we entered into a commercial paper program with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while no commercial paper has been issued under the commercial paper program at this time, we may incur indebtedness under this program in the future. 11 | table of contents credit facility in december 2012, we entered into a revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks providing for a five-year $1.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the credit facility. subject to certain conditions, we have the right to increase the credit facility to up to $1.5 billion. the credit facility became available for borrowings upon the completion of the ipo, and there are currently no borrowings under this credit facility. the credit facility bears interest, at our option, equal to either: (a) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the prime rate of jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., (ii) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (iii) a eurodollar rate for a one month interest period plus 1.00%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin; or (b) a eurodollar rate determined by reference to libor, adjusted for statutory reserve requirements, plus an applicable margin. additionally, we will pay a facility fee on the commitments under the credit facility, regardless of whether borrowings are outstanding under the credit facility. the applicable margins and the facility fee are determined based on public ratings of our senior unsecured non-credit enhanced long-term debt. interest on borrowings and the facility fee are generally payable quarterly in arrears; however, for loans bearing interest based on a eurodollar rate with a term shorter than three months, interest is payable at the end of such term. we may voluntarily prepay loans and/or reduce the commitment under the credit facility, in whole or in part, without penalty or premium, subject to certain minimum amounts and increments and the payment of customary breakage costs. no mandatory prepayment is required under the credit facility. the credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio of 4.35:1 for fiscal year 2013, 3.95:1 for fiscal year 2014, 3.50:1 for fiscal year 2015 and 3.00:1 thereafter. in addition, the credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with subsidiaries and incur priority indebtedness. the credit facility also contains customary events of default. the distribution pfizer has informed us that it may make a tax-free distribution to its stockholders of all or a portion of its remaining equity interest in us, which may include one or more distributions effected as a dividend to all pfizer stockholders, one or more distributions in exchange for pfizer shares or other securities, or any combination thereof. we refer to any such potential distribution as the distribution. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the internal revenue service (irs) substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the internal revenue code, or the code. pfizer has no obligation to pursue or consummate any further dispositions of its ownership interest in us, including through the distribution, by any specified date or at all. if pursued, the distribution would be subject to various conditions, including receipt of any necessary regulatory or other approvals, the existence of satisfactory market conditions and the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of opinions of counsel to the effect that such distribution would be tax-free to pfizer and its stockholders. the conditions to the distribution may not be satisfied, pfizer may decide not to consummate the distribution even if the conditions are satisfied or pfizer may decide to waive one or more of these conditions and consummate the distribution even if all of the conditions are not satisfied. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran or other entities and individuals targeted by certain u.s. sanctions administered by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2012, our activities included supplying animal health products for consumer use in iran and syria. u.s. law allows us to seek and rely on licenses issued by ofac to supply these products to customers in these countries for animal use. we ship these products pursuant to such licenses, and we conduct our activities in accordance with our internal policies, which follow requirements set forth in the laws of the u.s. and other applicable jurisdictions. we will continue our global activities to enhance the health of animals in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our internal policies. subject to the discussion of pfizer's activities below, to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2012 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra, with the following possible exception: pursuant to u.s. government authorizations, during 2012, through a non-u.s. affiliate of pfizer, pfizer shipped animal health products to authorized customers in iran. these shipments were backed by letters of credit issued by bank tejarat to a non-u.s. company acquired by pfizer in 2011. the letters of credit were issued by bank tejarat and the pfizer products were shipped to customers in iran prior to the bank's designation as a specially designated national (sdn) under executive order 13382. after bank tejarat's designation, pfizer's non-u.s. affiliate sought payment from bank tejarat by presenting shipping documentation to the non-u.s. affiliate's bank in europe and, as a result, subsequently received certain payments. not all funds related to these transactions have been received from bank tejarat. where required, pfizer requested u.s. government authorization to process the funds received and to be received. for funds received in 2012, our estimated gross revenues associated with these transactions were euro 222,962. other than as set forth in notes to combined financial statements note 17. segment, geographic and other revenue information , including the tables therein captioned selected statement of income information, geographic information and other revenue information in our 2012 annual report, we do not allocate net profit on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. we believe zoetis net profits attributable to these transactions in 2012 were a fraction of the gross revenues. 12 | table of contents pursuant to itrshra, we are also required to include disclosure in our 2012 annual report regarding our affiliates' activities. the following information regarding pfizer's activities is based on information provided to us by pfizer: as a global biopharmaceutical company, pfizer conducts business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2012, pfizer's activities included supplying life-saving medicines, nutritional supplements and other medical products (pfizer products) for patient and consumer use in iran and syria. u.s. law allows pfizer to seek and rely on licenses issued by ofac to supply pfizer products to customers in these countries, for both human and animal use. pfizer ships these pfizer products pursuant to such licenses, and pfizer conducts its activities in accordance with its internal policies, which follow requirements set forth in the laws of the u.s. and other applicable jurisdictions. pfizer plans to continue its global activities in a manner consistent with applicable laws and its internal policies. to pfizer's knowledge, none of its activities during 2012 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra, with the possible exceptions of the activity related to pfizer animal health set forth above and the following matters: pursuant to u.s. government authorizations, during 2012, pfizer's emerging markets business unit, through a non-u.s. affiliate, shipped pfizer products to authorized customers in iran. the shipments were backed by letters of credit issued by bank tejarat prior to its designation as an sdn under executive order 13382. as a result of the shipments, which also occurred prior to bank tejarat's designation, pfizer's non-u.s. affiliate sought payment from bank tejarat by presenting shipping documentation to the non-u.s. affiliate's bank in europe. in some cases, the presentation of documents occurred before bank tejarat's designation, and in other cases after such designation. not all funds related to these transactions have been received from bank tejarat. pfizer has received u.s. government authorization for several of the foregoing transactions with bank tejarat and, where required, has requested u.s. government authorization for the other transactions with bank tejarat. for funds received in 2012, pfizer's estimated gross revenues associated with these transactions were euro 397,071. other than as set forth in notes to consolidated financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information , including the tables therein captioned selected income statement information, geographic information and significant product revenues in pfizer's 2012 financial report and in the table captioned revenues by segment and geographic area in the md&amp;a in pfizer's 2012 financial report, pfizer does not allocate net profits on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. pfizer's net profits attributable to these transactions in 2012 were a fraction of its gross revenues. pursuant to u.s. government authorizations, during 2012, pfizer's emerging markets business unit, through a non-u.s. affiliate, shipped pfizer products to an authorized customer in syria. these shipments were backed by a letter of credit issued by syria international islamic bank (siib) prior to siib's designation as an sdn under executive order 13382. as a result of the shipment, which occurred prior to siib's designation as an sdn, pfizer's non-u.s. affiliate sought payment from siib by presenting shipping documentation to the non-u.s. affiliate's bank in europe. both the presentation of documents and the resulting payment occurred after siib was designated as an sdn. where required, pfizer has requested u.s. government authorization to process the funds received. pfizer's estimated gross revenues in 2012 associated with this transaction were euro 315,960. as noted above, pfizer does not allocate net profits on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. pfizer's net profits attributable to this transaction in 2012 were a fraction of its gross revenues. pfizer has informed its customers that, in connection with future transactions with pfizer, bank tejarat, siib and any other banks designated as sdns under executive order 13382 are not to be used. item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information in this 2012 annual report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. we generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, project, plan, predict, believe, seek, continue, outlook, may, might, will, should, can have, likely or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events. in particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to the separation, our indebtedness, our ability to make interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, our ability to satisfy the covenants contained in our indebtedness, the redemption of the notes, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, r&amp;d costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, dividend plans, the distribution, our agreements with pfizer, pfizer's control of our company, government regulation and financial results. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and are potentially inaccurate assumptions. however, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. you should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings 13 | table of contents with the sec. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business and industry restrictions and bans on the use of antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent. the issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterials resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, are the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. in some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). these restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. for example, in april 2012, the fda announced guidance calling for the voluntary elimination over a period of time of the use of medically important antibacterials in animal feed for growth promotion in food production animals (medically important antibacterials include classes that are prescribed in animal and human health). the guidance provides for continued use of antibacterials in food producing animals for treatment, control and prevention of disease under the supervision of a veterinarian. the fda indicated that they took this action to help preserve the efficacy of medically important antibacterials to treat infections in humans. our revenues attributable to antibacterials for livestock were approximately $1.2 billion for the year ended december 31, 2012. we cannot predict whether antibacterials resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations or public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products could cause a decline in the sales of such products. our livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. if the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. for example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition and health-related or other concerns. any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products. companies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. if livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, adverse regulations related, directly or indirectly, to the use of one or more of our products may injure livestock producers' market position. more stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products. an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products. sales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as bse or mad cow disease), which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. in addition, outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. for example, in april 2012, the usda announced that it had identified a case of bse in california. this announcement caused certain countries to implement additional inspections of, or suspend the importation of, u.s. beef. additionally, in december 2012, the world animal health organization announced that a case of bse had been identified in brazil. this announcement similarly caused certain countries to suspend the importation of brazilian beef. while the restrictions that were implemented as a result of these cases of bse have not significantly affected demand for our products, the discovery of additional cases of bse may result in additional restrictions related to, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. consolidation of our customers could negatively affect the pricing of our products. veterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. in recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. in addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, have seen recent consolidation in their industries. if these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. the resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 14 | table of contents our business may be negatively affected by weather conditions and the availability of natural resources. the animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in a particular region are affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. as a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. in addition, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. in the event of adverse weather conditions or a shortage of fresh water, livestock producers may purchase less of our products. for example, the drought currently impacting the u.s. is considered the worst in many years, impacting both the supply of corn and the availability of grazing pasture. the decrease in harvested corn has resulted in higher corn prices, which has impacted the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock size that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. reduced availability of grazing pasture may also force cattle producers to cull their herds. fewer heads of cattle would result in reduced demand for our products. a prolonged drought could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions. the global financial markets have undergone and may continue to experience significant volatility and disruption. the timing and sustainability of an economic recovery is uncertain and additional macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. certain of our customers and suppliers have been affected directly by the economic downturn and continue to face credit issues and could experience cash flow problems that have given rise to and could continue to give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. if one or more of our large customers, including distributors discontinue their relationship with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. our business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income. feed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. these shifts could result in a decrease of sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership. changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products. in most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. companion animal owners increasingly could purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. this trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years. companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on internet-based animal health information. because we market our companion animal prescription products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. legislation has also been proposed in the u.s., and may be proposed in the u.s. or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. for example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the american veterinary medical association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice. over time, these and other competitive conditions may increase our reliance on internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. we may be unable to sustain our current margins and we may not be adequately prepared or able to distribute our products if an increased portion of our sales is through these channels. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 15 | table of contents the animal health industry is highly competitive. the animal health industry is highly competitive. we believe many of our competitors are conducting r&amp;d activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. our competitors include the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies and specialty animal health businesses. these competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. as a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. in addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines and vaccines industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. to the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us. generic products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products. we face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. we depend on patents to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. our patent protection for these products extends for varying periods in accordance with the dates of filing or grant and the legal life of patents in countries in which patents are granted. the protection afforded by our patents, which varies from country to country, is limited by the scope and applicable terms of our patents and the availability of legal remedies in the applicable country. as a result, we may face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products. generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of pricing, and generic products are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. in addition, private label products may compete with our products. if animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic or private label products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we estimate that approximately 80% of our revenues in 2012 were derived from products that are either unpatented (i.e., never patented or off-patent) or covered by our patents that, while providing a competitive advantage, do not provide market exclusivity. over the next several years, several of our products' patents will expire. we may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses. we may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. we may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. in addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. we may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. we also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. we may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient. these effects could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully implement our business strategies or achieve expected gross margin improvements. we are and may continue to pursue strategic initiatives that management considers critical to our long-term success, including, but not limited to, increasing sales in emerging markets, base revenue growth through new product development and value-added brand lifecycle development; improving operational efficiency through manufacturing efficiency improvement and other programs; using cash flow from operations to service or reduce debt; and expanding our complementary products and services. in addition to base revenue growth, we also have historically grown our business through pfizer's acquisitions of large pharmaceutical companies that had animal health businesses, including the fort dodge animal health business of wyeth and the alpharma animal health business of king pharmaceuticals, inc. however, as a result of the separation, we are no longer able to benefit from pfizer's acquisition activity. we also have acquired or partnered with a number of smaller animal health businesses, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. there are significant risks involved with the execution of these initiatives, including significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. accordingly, we cannot predict whether we will succeed in implementing these strategic initiatives. it could take several years to realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, if any benefits are achieved at all. we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements on our products and technologies, including those acquired and those developed internally. additionally, our business strategy may change from time to time, which could delay our ability to implement initiatives that we believe are important to our business. our business could be affected adversely by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages. some of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the u.s. as a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. these risks may be increased by the separation because we are no longer able to benefit from pfizer's prior relationships and negotiations relating to such agreements. we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in 16 | table of contents canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenues and net income. in addition, labor problems at our suppliers or cmos could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. loss of our executive officers could disrupt our operations. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers. our executive officers are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. in addition, we have not entered into employment agreements with our executive officers. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officer positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. the loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. as of december 31, 2012, we had goodwill of $ 985 million and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $ 868 million . identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents and in-process r&amp;d. determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. the timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our combined statements of income and write-downs recorded in our combined balance sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our historical combined financial data is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a standalone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical combined financial data included in this 2012 annual report does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a standalone company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. this is primarily the result of the following factors: our historical combined financial data does not reflect the separation; our historical combined financial data reflects expense allocations for certain support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within pfizer, such as expenses for business technology, facilities, legal, finance, human resources, business development, public affairs and procurement, as well as certain manufacturing and supply costs incurred by manufacturing sites that are shared with other pfizer business units that may be higher or lower than the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred, or will incur, as a standalone company; our cost of debt and our capital structure will be different from that reflected in our historical combined financial statements; significant increases may occur in our cost structure as a result of our being a standalone public company, including costs related to public company reporting, investor relations and compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, or the sarbanes-oxley act; and effects on our customers and other business relationships, including supplier relationships, and the possible loss of preferred pricing available by virtue of our reduced relationship with pfizer. our financial condition and future results of operations, after giving effect to the separation, will be materially different from amounts reflected in our historical combined financial statements included in this 2012 annual report. as a result of the separation, it may be difficult for investors to compare our future results to historical results or to evaluate our relative performance or trends in our business. as a standalone public company, we will expend additional time and resources to comply with rules and regulations that did not previously apply to us, and failure to comply with such rules may lead investors to lose confidence in our financial data. as a standalone public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or the dodd-frank act, and regulations of the new york stock exchange (nyse). such requirements will increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, will make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and could be burdensome on our personnel, systems and resources. we will devote significant resources to address these public company-associated requirements, including compliance programs and investor relations, as well as our financial reporting obligations. complying with these rules and regulations has and will substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. in particular, as a public company, our management will be required to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal controls in our annual reports on form 10-k. under current rules, we will be subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report on form 10-k for the year ending december 31, 2013. in addition, we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to auditing standard no. 5 beginning with our annual report on form 10-k for the year ending december 31, 2014. if we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. 17 | table of contents risks related to research and development our r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and brand lifecycle developments. our future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to r&amp;d, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties. we may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. in addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenues that are consistent with our expectations. the animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. furthermore, the timing and cost of our r&amp;d may increase, and our r&amp;d may become less predictable. for example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to research, develop and register products. products in the animal health industry are sometimes derived from molecules and compounds discovered or developed as part of human health research. in addition to the r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer, we expect to enter into other collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties to provide us with access to compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. if we are unable to access human health-generated molecules and compounds to conduct research and development on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited. advances in veterinary medical practices and animal health technologies could negatively affect the market for our products. the market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including green or holistic health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. in addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our r&amp;d relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations. as an animal health medicines and vaccines business, the evaluation of our existing and new products in animals is required to register our products. animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. to the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our r&amp;d, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. risks related to manufacturing manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs. in order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship sufficient quantities. we have a global manufacturing network consisting of 29 manufacturing sites located in 11 countries. in addition, 14 pfizer sites located in 13 countries manufacture certain of our products for us. included in these 14 pfizer sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, where pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a period of time. these 14 pfizer sites consist of sites operated by pfizer that, immediately prior to the separation, predominantly manufactured human health products. we also employ a network of approximately 200 cmos. many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. minor deviations in our manufacturing processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. in addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines; construction delays; equipment malfunctions; shortages of materials; labor problems; natural disasters; power outages; terrorist activities; changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and 18 | table of contents the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. these interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results. for example, our manufacturing site in medolla, italy was damaged in an earthquake in may 2012, which resulted in production interruptions at that site. our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. the unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. in addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. we rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services and are subject to increased labor and material costs. the materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. in addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products. we may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole source of certain materials necessary for production of our products. we may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. risks related to legal matters and regulation we may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. these matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of u.s. and foreign competition law, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, breach of contract and tort. in addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. for example, in the u.s., attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. if such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. an adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. there may be increased risk of product liability if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. for example, ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our ketaset product, is a commonly abused hallucinogen. furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. if we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. animal health products are subject to unanticipated safety or efficacy concerns, which may harm our reputation. unanticipated safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to animal health products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability, and other claims. for example, as a result of safety concerns related to our product, pregsure bvd, in 2010, we voluntarily suspended sales of the product and withdrew the marketing authorization in the eu and, in 2011, we also suspended sales and withdrew the marketing authorization for the product in new zealand. in addition, we depend on positive perceptions of the safety and quality of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, and such concerns may harm our reputation. these concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. our business is subject to substantial regulation. we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. in connection with the separation, we will likely change the location of the manufacture of certain of our products and, because of these changes, may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. 19 | table of contents in addition, we cannot predict the nature of future laws or regulations, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, regulatory agencies have recently increased their focus on the potential for vaccines to induce immunity anomalies. absent a clear understanding of these anomalies, regulatory scrutiny of vaccines may become stricter. additional scrutiny or regulation of our vaccine products could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur liabilities under the united states comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended, or cercla, or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. see item 1. business environmental, health and safety . the costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. our failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. risks related to our international operations a significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business. our international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: volatility in the international financial markets; compliance with governmental controls; difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and similar non-u.s. laws and regulations; compliance with foreign labor laws; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements; changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers; political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts; trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of the treasury; changes in tax laws and tariffs; costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; and longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk. 20 | table of contents the multinational nature of our business subjects us to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. in addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. a failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. in addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized importation of our products between jurisdictions. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. foreign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. we conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. in 2012, we generated approximately 54% of our revenues in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, australian dollar and brazilian real. we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. in addition, because our financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. we also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. while we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. we currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including china and venezuela, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 venezuelan bolivar per u.s. dollar. we incurred a foreign currency loss immediately on the devaluation as a result of remeasuring the local balance sheets and we will experience ongoing impacts to earnings as our revenues and expenses will be translated at lower rates. we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets. we have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets, including by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets. failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could also materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. for example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. in addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. for example, in the past, our revenues in certain emerging markets in latin america have been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations. for all these and other reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. risks related to intellectual property the actual or purported intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business. a third party may sue us or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. if we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future. the costs of defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such claims. the intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. we cannot be certain that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not obtain rights to intellectual property that may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable or we believe we would be otherwise able to develop a more commercially successful product, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. 21 | table of contents if our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. for example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. the validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, patent law reform in the u.s. and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights, or make such enforcement financially unattractive. for instance, in september 2011, the u.s. enacted the america invents act, which will permit enhanced third-party actions for challenging patents and implement a first-to-invent system, and, in april 2012, australia enacted the intellectual property laws amendment (raising the bar) act, which provides higher standards for obtaining patents. these reforms could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property or limit our ability to patent our products in these jurisdictions. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or relabel a product. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. many of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. the misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the u.s., may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. in the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, and that the costs of doing so may outweigh the value of doing so, and this could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. risks related to information technology we may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites. in many markets around the world, such as the u.s. and brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. the operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone service or power outages; failures of the computer systems that operate our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation. 22 | table of contents we depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. we rely on various information systems to manage our operations, and we increasingly depend on third parties and applications on virtualized, or cloud, infrastructure to operate and support our information technology systems. these third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. failure by these providers to adequately service our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in connection with the ipo and the separation, we have substantially changed a number of our business processes, including changes in our financial reporting and supply chain processes. in order to support the new business processes under the terms of our transitional services agreement with pfizer, we have made significant configuration and data changes within some of our information technology systems. if our information technology and processes are not sufficient to support our business and financial reporting functions, or if we fail to properly implement our new business processes, our financial reporting may be delayed or inaccurate and our operations may be adversely affected and, as a result, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, over the next few years, we expect to implement new business systems to support our operations including an enterprise resource planning system to better integrate our manufacturing, financial, commercial and business operations. transitioning to new systems, integrating new systems into current systems or any disruptions or malfunctions (including from circumstances beyond our control) affecting our information systems could cause critical information upon which we rely to be delayed, unreliable, corrupted, insufficient or inaccessible. any of these potential issues, individually or in aggregation, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. even if we are able to implement these systems successfully, all technology systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if our information technology systems were to fail or be breached, this could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised. we may be unable to adequately protect our customers' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws. the protection of customer, employee and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, our customers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. despite our considerable efforts and technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. our systems and procedures meet the payment card industry, or pci, data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance. failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. in addition, pci is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in pci's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with pci security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. risks related to our indebtedness we have substantial indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. we incurred approximately $3.65 billion aggregate principal amount of senior indebtedness, with an original issue discount of $10 million, including the $1.0 billion of our senior indebtedness that was transferred to pfizer and subsequently sold by pfizer. after the completion of the senior notes offering our total debt was $3.64 billion (net of original issue debt discount of $10 million). immediately prior to the completion of the ipo, we transferred an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds we received in the senior notes offering to pfizer. in addition, we have entered into an agreement for a five-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future. we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; impacting our effective tax rate; and increasing our cost of borrowing. 23 | table of contents in addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. for example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with subsidiaries and incur priority indebtedness. our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including our international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock. we may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes. upon the occurrence of a change of control of us and a downgrade below investment grade by moody's investor services, inc. and standard &amp; poor's rating services, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. we did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the pfizer-owned notes and we paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to pfizer prior to the completion of the ipo. as a result of these and other factors, we may not have sufficient funds available to finance a change of control offer. our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes. the credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs. risks related to our relationship with pfizer we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation and distribution. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation and distribution, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. these expected benefits include the following: improving strategic and operational flexibility, increasing management focus and streamlining decision-making by providing the flexibility to implement our strategic plan and to respond more effectively to different customer needs and the changing economic environment; allowing us to adopt the capital structure, investment policy and dividend policy best suited to our financial profile and business needs, without competing for capital with pfizer's other businesses; creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock; and facilitating incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhancing employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives of our business. 24 | table of contents we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the separation and distribution for a variety of reasons, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. pfizer controls the direction of our business and the concentrated ownership of our common stock prevents our stockholders from influencing significant decisions. pfizer owns 100% of our outstanding class b common stock and no shares of our class a common stock, giving pfizer 80.2% of the economic interest and the combined voting power in shares of our outstanding common stock other than with respect to the election of directors and 97.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock with respect to the election of directors. as long as pfizer beneficially controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock with respect to a particular matter, it will generally be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors. even if pfizer were to control less than a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, it may be able to influence the outcome of such corporate actions so long as it owns a significant portion of our common stock. if pfizer does not complete the distribution or otherwise dispose of its shares of our common stock, it could remain our controlling stockholder for an extended period of time or indefinitely. pfizer's interests may not be the same as, or may conflict with, the interests of our other stockholders. our stockholders, other than pfizer, will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote while pfizer controls the majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. as a result, pfizer is able to control, directly or indirectly and subject to applicable law, all matters affecting us, including: any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers and directors; any determinations with respect to mergers, business combinations or disposition of assets; our financing and dividend policy; compensation and benefit programs and other human resources policy decisions; termination of, changes to or determinations under our agreements with pfizer relating to the separation; changes to any other agreements that may adversely affect us; the payment of dividends on our common stock; and determinations with respect to our tax returns. because pfizer's interests may differ from ours or from those of our other stockholders, actions that pfizer takes with respect to us, as our controlling stockholder, may not be favorable to us or our other stockholders. the distribution may not occur. pfizer has no obligation to complete the distribution. whether pfizer proceeds with the distribution, in whole or in part, is subject to a number of conditions, including the receipt of any necessary regulatory or other approvals, the existence of satisfactory market conditions and the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of opinions of counsel to the effect that such distribution would be tax-free to pfizer and its stockholders. even if pfizer elects to pursue the distribution, pfizer has the right to abandon or change the structure of the distribution if pfizer determines, in its sole discretion, that the distribution is not in the best interest of pfizer or its stockholders. furthermore, if the distribution does not occur, or if pfizer does not otherwise dispose of its shares of our common stock, the risks relating to pfizer's control of us and the potential business conflicts of interest between pfizer and us will continue to be relevant to our stockholders. the liquidity of shares of our common stock in the market may be constrained for as long as pfizer continues to hold a significant position in our stock. a lack of liquidity in our class a common stock could depress the price of our class a common stock. our class b common stock may remain as a separate class. each share of class b common stock held by pfizer or a subsidiary of pfizer is convertible at any time into one share of class a common stock at pfizer's option but is not convertible if held by any other holder. as a result, if pfizer were to distribute shares of class b common stock in the distribution, or otherwise dispose of its shares of class b common stock, the new holders of such shares would not be able to convert the shares of class b common stock into class a common stock. in such event, we may apply to have our class b common stock listed on a securities exchange. the existence of multiple classes of publicly traded common stock could depress the price of our class a common stock. if pfizer were to distribute shares of class b common stock in the distribution, or otherwise dispose of its shares of class b common stock, our board of directors may in the future consider a proposal to amend our certificate of incorporation to mandatorily convert class b common stock to class a common stock on a share-for-share basis, subject to the receipt of the required approval by our stockholders. if the proposal is approved by our board of directors and presented to our stockholders, a vote by (i) a majority of the shares of class a common stock and class b common stock, voting together as a single class, and (ii) a majority of the shares of the class b common stock, voting as a separate class, will be required for the proposal to be approved. there will be no binding commitment by the board to, and our board of directors may elect not to consider the issue or resolve to present any such proposal to our stockholders at any stockholders' meeting. moreover, if presented, our stockholders may not approve any such conversion. if pfizer sells a controlling interest in our company to a third party in a private transaction, our stockholders may not realize any change-of-control premium on shares of our common stock and we may become subject to the control of a presently unknown third party. pfizer owns a significant equity interest in our company and has the ability, should it choose to do so, to sell some or all of its shares of our common stock in a privately negotiated transaction, which, if sufficient in size, could result in a change of control of our company. 25 | table of contents the ability of pfizer to privately sell its shares of our common stock, with no requirement for a concurrent offer to be made to acquire all of the shares of our publicly-traded class a common stock could prevent our stockholders from realizing any change-of-control premium on shares of our class a common stock that may otherwise accrue to pfizer on its private sale of our common stock. additionally, if pfizer privately sells its significant equity interest in our company, we may become subject to the control of a presently unknown third party. such third party may have conflicts of interest with those of other stockholders. in addition, if pfizer sells a controlling interest in our company to a third party, our indebtedness may be subject to acceleration, pfizer may terminate the r&amp;d collaboration agreement and license agreement, and other transitional arrangements, and our other commercial agreements and relationships could be impacted, all of which may adversely affect our ability to run our business as described herein and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. the distribution or future sales by pfizer or others of our common stock, or the perception that the distribution or such sales may occur, could depress our class a common stock price. pfizer owns 100% of our outstanding class b common stock and no shares of our class a common stock, giving pfizer 80.2% of the economic interest and the combined voting power in shares of our outstanding common stock other than with respect to the election of directors and 97.6% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock with respect to the election of directors. subject to the restrictions described in the paragraph below, future sales of these shares in the public market will be subject to the volume and other restrictions of rule 144 under the securities act of 1933, or the securities act, for so long as pfizer is deemed to be our affiliate, unless the shares to be sold are registered with the securities and exchange commission, or sec. we are unable to predict with certainty whether or when pfizer will sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock to the extent it retains shares following the distribution or in the event the distribution does not occur. the distribution or sale by pfizer of a substantial number of shares after the ipo, or a perception that the distribution or such sales could occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our class a common stock. we, our officers and directors and pfizer have agreed with the underwriters in the ipo that, without the prior written consent of j.p. morgan securities llc, merrill lynch, pierce, fenner &amp; smith incorporated and morgan stanley &amp; co. llc, we and they will not, subject to certain exceptions and extensions, during the period ending 180 days after january 31, 2013 offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase, or otherwise transfer or dispose of, directly or indirectly, or enter into any swap or other agreement that transfers to another, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of shares of our common stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of our common stock or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge or disposition. j.p. morgan securities llc, merrill lynch, pierce, fenner &amp; smith incorporated and morgan stanley &amp; co. llc may, in their sole discretion and at any time without notice, release all or any portion of the shares of our common stock subject to the lock-up. in addition, if equity securities granted under the zoetis 2013 equity and incentive plan are sold or it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our class a common stock could decline substantially. these sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. we are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of the nyse and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. pfizer controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. as a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the nyse. under these rules, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; the requirement that our corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; the requirement that our compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of our corporate governance and compensation committees. while pfizer controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, we do not currently have and may not have in the future a majority of independent directors or corporate governance and compensation committees consisting entirely of independent directors and we will not be required to have written charters addressing these committees' purposes and responsibilities or have annual performance evaluations of these committees. accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the nyse. as a result of the separation, we will lose pfizer's brand, reputation, capital base and other resources. prior to the ipo, as a business unit of pfizer, we generally used the name pfizer animal health, and we believe the association with pfizer contributed to our building relationships with our customers due to pfizer's globally recognized brand and perceived high-quality products. the separation and distribution could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, which could result in reduced sales of our products. the loss of pfizer's scale, capital base and financial strength may also prompt suppliers to reprice, modify or terminate their relationships with us. in addition, pfizer's reduction of its ownership of our company may cause some of our existing agreements and licenses to be terminated. we cannot predict with certainty the effect the separation or the distribution may have on our business, our clients, vendors or other persons, or whether our new brand, zoetis, will be accepted in the marketplace. 26 | table of contents pfizer may compete with us. pfizer is not restricted from competing with us in the animal health business, including as a result of acquiring a company that operates an animal health business. due to the significant resources of pfizer, including financial resources, name recognition and know-how resulting from the previous management of our business, pfizer could have a significant competitive advantage over us should it decide to engage in the type of business we conduct, which may cause our operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with pfizer. frank a. d'amelio (executive vice president, chief financial officer and business operations for pfizer), geno j. germano (president and general manager, specialty care and oncology for pfizer), douglas e. giordano (senior vice president, worldwide business development for pfizer), charles h. hill (executive vice president, worldwide human resources for pfizer) and amy w. schulman (executive vice president and general counsel, business unit lead, consumer healthcare for pfizer) serve on our board of directors and are employees of pfizer. in addition, such directors may own pfizer common stock, options to purchase pfizer common stock or other pfizer equity awards. these individual's holdings of pfizer common stock, options to purchase common stock of pfizer or other equity awards may be significant for some of these persons compared to these persons' total assets. their position at pfizer and the ownership of any pfizer equity or equity awards creates, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for pfizer than the decisions have for us. pfizer and its directors and officers have limited liability to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty. our certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, pfizer will have no obligation to refrain from: engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as we do; doing business with any of our clients or consumers; or employing or otherwise engaging any of our officers or employees. under our certificate of incorporation, neither pfizer nor any officer or director of pfizer, except as provided in our certificate of incorporation, is liable to us or to our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of any of these activities. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the separation, the debt-for-debt exchange, the debt-for-equity exchange, the transfer of cash proceeds of the senior notes offering to pfizer and the potential distribution, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the separation, the debt-for-debt exchange, the debt-for-equity exchange, the transfer of cash proceeds of the senior notes offering to pfizer, the potential distribution and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents the separation, the debt-for-debt exchange, the debt-for-equity exchange, the transfer of cash proceeds of the senior notes offering to pfizer, the potential distribution and certain related transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in other transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 3.250% senior notes due 2023, which we refer to as the 2023 notes and the use of our common stock to make acquisitions and equity capital market transactions that might increase the value of our business. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer tax matters agreement. the assets and resources that we acquired from pfizer in the separation may not be sufficient for us to operate as a standalone company, and we may experience difficulty in separating our assets and resources from pfizer. because we have not operated as a standalone company in the past, we may have difficulty doing so. we may need to acquire assets and resources in addition to those provided by pfizer to our company, and in connection with the separation, may also face difficulty in separating our assets from pfizer's assets and integrating newly acquired assets into our business. our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if we have difficulty operating as a standalone company, fail to acquire assets that prove to be important to our operations or incur unexpected costs in separating our assets from pfizer's assets or integrating newly acquired assets. we will incur significant charges in connection with the separation and incremental costs as a standalone public company. we will need to replicate or replace certain functions, systems and infrastructure to which we no longer have the same access after the separation. we may also need to make investments or hire additional employees to operate without the same access to pfizer's existing operational and administrative infrastructure. these initiatives may be costly to implement. due to the scope and complexity of the underlying projects relative to these efforts, the amount of total costs could be materially higher than our estimate, and the timing of the incurrence of these costs is subject to change. prior to the separation, pfizer performed or supported many important corporate functions for our company. our combined financial statements reflect charges for these services on an allocation basis. following the separation, many of these services will be governed by our transitional services agreement with pfizer. under the transitional services agreement we are able to use these pfizer services for a fixed term established on a service-by-service basis. however, we generally have the right to terminate a service earlier if we give notice to pfizer. partial reduction in the provision of any service requires pfizer's consent. in addition, either party is able to terminate the agreement due to a material breach of the other party, upon prior written notice, subject to limited cure periods. we pay pfizer mutually agreed-upon fees for these services, based on pfizer's costs of providing the services. during the two years following the ipo, the markup for these services will be 0% and, for the remainder of the term of the agreement, pfizer may introduce a markup of 7% , which we believe is consistent with arm's length pricing for the services provided. however, since our transitional services agreement was negotiated in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship, the terms of the agreement, including the fees charged for the services, may be higher or lower 27 | table of contents than those that would be agreed to by parties bargaining at arm's length for similar services and may be higher or lower than the costs reflected in the allocations in our historical financial statements. third party costs are passed through to us at pfizer's or its affiliates' cost. in addition, while these services are being provided to us by pfizer, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to such services or the amounts we pay for them is limited. prior to the distribution, if effected, pfizer will have the unilateral right to resolve disputes under the transitional services agreement. we may not be able to replace these services or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those that we receive from pfizer under our transitional services agreement. additionally, after the agreement terminates, we may be unable to sustain the services at the same levels or obtain the same benefits as when we were receiving such services and benefits from pfizer. when we begin to operate these functions separately, if we do not have our own adequate systems and business functions in place, or are unable to obtain them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our business effectively or at comparable costs, and our profitability may decline. in addition, we have historically received informal support from pfizer, which may not be addressed in our transitional services agreement. the level of this informal support may diminish or be eliminated in the future. we may not be able to fully realize the expected benefits of our r&amp;d agreement with pfizer. prior to the separation, as a business unit of pfizer, we had the ability to leverage pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to identify, research and develop compounds suitable as new product candidates for the animal health field. as part of the separation, we entered into an r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer, which we refer to as the r&amp;d agreement. pursuant to the r&amp;d agreement, subject to certain restrictions, we will have continued access to pfizer's compound library and database for a period of seven years and will have, subject to pfizer's approval, the possibility to exclusively license compounds from pfizer that we develop under the r&amp;d agreement. while the r&amp;d agreement is intended to bolster our post-separation r&amp;d capabilities, certain terms of the r&amp;d agreement may limit our ability to achieve this expected benefit, including: pfizer will retain ownership of, and license to us, the intellectual property that we develop under the r&amp;d agreement. in many circumstances, the intellectual property we license from pfizer will be non-exclusive as to pfizer and third parties. we are not assured access to pfizer's newest programs. pfizer can prevent us from progressing pre-development compounds and, under certain circumstances, pfizer may terminate our rights to a development stage compound by paying us the fair market value for such compound. the r&amp;d agreement may be terminated before the expiration of the seven year term in certain circumstances, including if we acquire an interest in or assets of a human pharmaceutical business, we enter into a definitive agreement relating to or undergo a change of control other than the distribution or pfizer acquires, or is acquired by, an animal health business. each of the foregoing terms and pfizer's other rights under the r&amp;d agreement and related licenses (if any), could limit our ability to realize the expected benefits of the r&amp;d agreement. if we fail to achieve the expected benefits of the r&amp;d agreement, it may be more difficult, time consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. we may experience delays in new product development, which may result in our loss of the first-in-class products in a given therapeutic area. for a summary description of the terms of the r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement, see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer research and development collaboration and license agreement. we are dependent on pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. under the patent and know-how license agreement (pfizer as licensor), pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that pfizer licenses to us. pfizer also has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such patents. in addition, under the patent and know-how license agreement (zoetis as licensor), subject to certain exceptions, pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents if the enforcement relates to the human health field. if pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under these agreements, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products. pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products. under the patent and know-how license, pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. if we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. in addition, in circumstances where pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or in limited instances, subject to pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. these limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. for a summary description of the terms of the patent and know-how license (pfizer as licensor), see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer intellectual property license agreements. 28 | table of contents risks related to our class a common stock the price of our class a common stock may fluctuate substantially. our class a common stock has a limited trading history and there may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our class a common stock. some factors that may cause the market price of our class a common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section of our 2012 annual report, are: our announcements or our competitors' announcements regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; failures to meet external expectations or management guidance; fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, including as a result of the distribution, future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders, including pfizer, or our incurrence of additional debt; reputational issues; changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business; changes in industry conditions or perceptions; changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and announcements or actions taken by pfizer as our principal stockholder. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our class a common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. while we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. on march 28, 2013, our board of directors declared the 2013 second quarter dividend of $0.065 per share to be paid on june 6, 2013 to holders of record on may 1, 2013. although we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our class a common stockholders and class b common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our class a common stock. we anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. the declaration and payment of dividends to holders of our class a common stock and class b common stock is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows available in the u.s., impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our class a common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as our by-laws, contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; a dual class equity structure; rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. in addition, delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests. 29 | table of contents if pfizer makes the distribution, and there is later a determination that the separation, the debt-for-debt exchange, the debt-for-equity exchange, the transfer of cash proceeds of the senior notes offering to pfizer and/or the distribution is taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, then pfizer and its stockholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities, and we could incur significant liabilities. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. if pursued, completion by pfizer of the distribution would be conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of opinions of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the distribution will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the ruling relies and the opinions will rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the separation, the debt-for-debt exchange, the debt-for-equity exchange, the transfer of cash proceeds of the senior notes offering to pfizer and/or the distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of pfizer or us after the distribution. if the separation, the debt-for-debt exchange, the debt-for-equity exchange, the transfer of cash proceeds of the senior notes offering to pfizer and/or the distribution is determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, pfizer and/or its stockholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities, and we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. foreign exchange risk a significant portion of our revenues and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, the brazilian real and the australian dollar. as a business unit of pfizer and under pfizer's risk management umbrella, we managed our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. additionally, as a standalone public company, we may implement a foreign currency hedging strategy to limit our foreign exchange risk. 54 | table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors risks related to our international operations . sales and marketing our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products. our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to inform, promote and sell our products and services. our technical and veterinary operations specialists provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use, and generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees. these direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. as a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. as of december 31, 2013, our sales organization consisted of approximately 3,500 employees. our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. on a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. we also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners. customers we sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork, poultry and aquaculture operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that typically then sell the products to livestock producers. we primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 11% and 6%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2013, and no other customer represented more than 4% of our revenue for the same period. 5 | table of contents research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine r&amp;d organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development or registration of our products. we spent $ 399 million in 2013, $ 409 million in 2012 and $ 427 million in 2011 on r&amp;d. while the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product r&amp;d continues to play an important role in our growth strategies, the majority of our r&amp;d investment is focused on product lifecycle development. new product r&amp;d leverages discoveries of agribusiness, academia, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology r&amp;d organizations. our product lifecycle development leverages our existing product portfolio to expand our product lines by adding new species or claims, achieving approvals in new countries and creating new combinations and reformulations. two factors -- the allocation of our r&amp;d investment between product lifecycle development and new product research and development, and our ability to leverage both the discoveries of other industries and of our existing r&amp;d -- generally leads to a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable r&amp;d process. in addition, our other r&amp;d activities include the development of branded generic products, genetics and diagnostics, as well as biodevices and engineering investments for in ovo applications. we prioritize our r&amp;d spending on an annual basis with the goal of alignment of research and business objectives and do not disaggregate our r&amp;d operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. we make our strategic investments in r&amp;d based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. a centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend without a focus on spending by research stage or by therapeutic area. this comprehensive view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. prior to the ipo, we entered into a r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer pursuant to which we will maintain access to pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to develop new products, subject to certain restrictions. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer research and development collaboration and license agreement . in addition, we are pursuing opportunities to enter into collaboration agreements and external alliances with other parties. as of december 31, 2013, we employed approximately 1,100 employees in our global r&amp;d operations. our r&amp;d headquarters is located in kalamazoo, michigan. we have r&amp;d operations co-located with manufacturing sites in melbourne, australia; louvain-la-neuve, belgium; guarulhos, brazil; olot, spain; charles city, iowa, u.s. and lincoln, nebraska, u.s. we co-locate r&amp;d operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. in addition, we maintain r&amp;d operations in zaventem, belgium; o paulo, brazil; mumbai, india; and college park, maryland, u.s. and durham, north carolina, u.s. as part of the separation, pfizer conveyed to us its interest in each of these r&amp;d facilities, with the exception of our mumbai, india facility, which we expect pfizer to transfer to us for agreed upon cash consideration, and, in the interim, we lease the facility from pfizer. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer mumbai, india interim lease agreement . each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents. many of our research programs involve an external partnership, often with funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. we are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental direct and indirect expertise in, as well as investment for, such external partnerships. depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models. manufacturing and supply chain our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as cmos. we have a global manufacturing network of 28 sites, which utilizes centralized oversight of a system of 13 anchor and 15 satellite manufacturing sites to maximize cost efficiencies. in connection with the separation from pfizer (the separation), 29 manufacturing sites were transferred to us. these 29 sites consisted of all of the sites operated by pfizer that, immediately prior to the separation, predominantly manufactured animal health products. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer master manufacturing and supply agreements. since the separation, we have exited the hannibal, missouri site and are in the process of exiting the victoria, british columbia, canada site, both of which are leased facilities. 6 | table of contents our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites: anchor sites satellite sites site location site location catania italy campinas brazil charles city iowa, u.s. durham north carolina, u.s. chicago heights illinois, u.s. eagle grove iowa, u.s. guarulhos (1) brazil hsinchu taiwan haridwar india laurinburg north carolina, u.s. jilin (2) china longmont colorado, u.s. kalamazoo (3) michigan, u.s. medolla italy lincoln nebraska, u.s. salisbury maryland, u.s. louvain-la-neuve belgium san diego california, u.s. melbourne australia shenzhou china olot spain van buren arkansas, u.s. suzhou china victoria (4) british columbia, canada willow island west virginia, u.s. wellington new zealand white hall illinois, u.s. yantai china (1) this site is owned by us and leased back to pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer brazil lease agreements. (2) this site is operated by the jilin pfizer guoyuan joint venture. (3) prior to the separation, pfizer's manufacturing site in kalamazoo manufactured both human health and animal health products. since the separation, we own the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture animal health products and pfizer owns the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture human health products. (4) we are in the process of exiting this site as a result of certain product divestitures. we own all of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in melbourne, australia; medolla, italy; van buren, arkansas, united states; san diego, california, united states and victoria, british columbia, canada, which are leased sites. in addition to our global manufacturing network and our cmos, pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at 13 pfizer sites located in 12 countries pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. included in these 13 pfizer sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, where pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a period of time. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer master manufacturing and supply agreements. our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of cmos. as of december 31, 2013, this network was comprised of approximately 200 cmos, including those centrally managed as well as local cmos. we select cmos based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) capacity; and (iii) financial efficiency analyses. our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the cmos we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality and are regularly audited. we purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. we utilize distributors as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support. we intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including six sigma and lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. we have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and cmo sites. competition although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as merck animal health, the animal health division of merck &amp; co., inc. (formerly known as intervet/schering-plough); merial, the animal health division of sanofi s.a.; elanco, the animal health division of eli lilly and company; bayer animal health, the animal health division of bayer ag; novartis animal health, the animal health division of novartis ag; and boehringer ingelheim animal health, the animal health division of boehringer ingelheim gmbh. in addition, we compete with hundreds of other animal health product producers throughout the world. 7 | table of contents the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. for example, the level of generic competition is higher in europe and certain emerging markets than in the united states. however, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. the reasons for this include the smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. in addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians. our livestock products tend to experience lower generic competition than our companion animal products for several reasons: livestock producers tend to be loyal to medicines and vaccines that have been demonstrated to be efficacious; as medicines and vaccines are a small portion of a livestock producer's total production costs and ineffective medicines and vaccines could result in the loss of animals, causing disproportionate harm to such producer's investment. therefore, we believe that livestock producers value brand name medicines and vaccines and are reluctant to try alternatives to methods that have already been proven to be reliably effective; in livestock, equally important as the product is the technical support, which occurs through our veterinary operations support of our products and field force; and reliable supply. the importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. as a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity. intellectual property our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. we rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate. our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 4,900 granted patents and 2,100 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with concentration in our major market countries as well as other countries with strong patent systems, such as australia, brazil, canada, europe, japan and the united states. many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our own and pfizer's work, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were at least partially developed by, and are licensed to us by, third parties. patents for individual products extend for varying periods depending on the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. several patents cover the ceftiofur product line, including formulation and use patents that begin expiring in the united states in 2015, with others extending until 2024. draxxin and convenia are covered by patents in the united states with terms that expire in 2021 and 2023, respectively. the compound patent on doramectin, which is the active ingredient in dectomax, an antiparasitic, expired in all regions; however, process patents and the injectable formulation patent for this product do not expire in the united states until 2020 and 2016, respectively. the compound patent on selamectin, which is the active ingredient in revolution, a parasiticide, is expiring in the united states, canada and europe during 2014; however, we have process and formulation patents covering this product expiring in 2018 and 2019, respectively. additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement. in order to facilitate the separation and allow pfizer and our operations to continue with minimal interruption, pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we license to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of pfizer's trademarks and we granted pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time following the completion of the ipo. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. we currently maintain more than 10,000 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals. regulatory the sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. to maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. in the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. united states united states food and drug administration (fda). the regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the united states is the center for veterinary medicine (cvm), housed within the fda. all manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the federal 8 | table of contents food, drug and cosmetic act. the fda's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a freedom of information summary. post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the cvm's surveillance and compliance group. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source. united states department of agriculture (usda). the regulatory body in the united states for veterinary vaccines is the usda. the usda's center for veterinary biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. all manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the virus serum toxin act. post-approval monitoring of products is required. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements. environmental protection agency (epa). the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides is the epa. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. outside of the united states european union (eu). the european medicines agency (ema) is a decentralized agency of the eu, located in london. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by pharmaceutical companies for use in the eu. the agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. the committee for veterinary medicinal products is responsible for scientific review of the submissions for pharmaceuticals and vaccines. the ema makes the final decision on the approval of products. once granted by the european commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all eu and european economic area-european free trade association states. a series of directives, guidelines and eu pharmacopeia monographs provide the requirements for approval in the eu. in general, these requirements are similar to those in the united states, requiring demonstrated evidence of purity, safety, efficacy, and consistency of manufacturing processes. brazil. the ministry of agriculture, livestock production and supply (mapa) is the regulatory body in brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. mapa's regulatory activities are conducted through the secretary of agricultural defense and its livestock products inspection department. in addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the federal agriculture superintendence. these activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. mapa is one of the most active regulatory agencies in latin america, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as codex alimentarius, world organization for animal health and committee of veterinary medicines for the americas. mapa was also invited to be a latin american representative at international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich) meetings. several normative instructions issued by mapa have set regulatory trends in latin america. australia. the australian pesticides and veterinary medicines authority (apvma) is an australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the australian marketplace. previously each state and territory government had its own system of registration. the apvma assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the apvma's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. if the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the apvma will register the product. as well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the apvma reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job users expect and are safe to use. the apvma also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. the review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. in some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being cancelled and the product taken off the market. rest of world. country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. with the exception of the eu, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the fda, usda, eu and other international animal health entities, including the world organization for animal health, codex alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines. global policy and guidance joint fao/who expert committee on food additives. the joint fao/who expert committee on food additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the world health organization (who). they provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. we work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. this in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain. 9 | table of contents advertising and promotion review. promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. these rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. we conduct a review of promotion material for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products. food safety inspection service/generally recognized as safe. the fda is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including generally recognized as safe substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. however, although the fda has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the food safety and inspection service, the public health agency in the usda, still retains, under the tenets of the federal meat inspection act and the poultry products inspection act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products. employees as of december 31, 2013, we have more than 9,800 employees worldwide, which includes approximately 4,100 employees in the united states and approximately 5,700 in other jurisdictions. some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 50 union employees in the united states. environmental, health and safety we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. certain environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. in addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. in connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2013 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows: environmental-related capital expenditures - $0.5 million; and other environmental-related expenditures - $9 million however, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. in connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. we have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all. while we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. available information the company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. on our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance and our directors at zoetis, including as follows: our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; zoetis policies on business conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and principal accounting officer); code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; ways to communicate by email with our directors; board committees; and committee charters. we will provide any of the foregoing information 10 | table of contents without charge upon written request to our corporate secretary, zoetis inc., 100 campus drive, florham park, new jersey 07932. information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. the information contained on our website does not constitute a part of this 2013 annual report. disclosure pursuant to section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 section 219 of the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 (itrshra) requires disclosure by public companies of certain transactions involving the government of iran or other entities and individuals targeted by certain u.s. sanctions administered by the u.s. department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac). in some instances, itrshra requires companies to disclose these types of transactions, even if they were permissible under u.s. law or were conducted by a non-u.s. affiliate in accordance with the local law under which such entity operates. as a global animal health company, we conduct business in multiple jurisdictions throughout the world. during 2012, our activities included supplying life-saving medicines, nutritional supplements and other medical products for animals in iran and syria. united states law allows us, where required, to seek and rely on licenses issued by ofac to supply zoetis animal health products to customers in these countries. we ship these products pursuant to such licenses, and we conduct our activities in accordance with our internal policies, which follow requirements set forth in the laws of the united states and other applicable jurisdictions. we will continue our global activities to improve the health and well-being of animals in a manner consistent with applicable laws and our internal policies. to our knowledge, none of our activities during 2013 are required to be disclosed pursuant to itrshra, with the following possible exception: pursuant to u.s. government authorizations, during 2012, zoetis (doing business as the animal health unit of pfizer), and through a non-u.s. affiliate, shipped zoetis products to authorized customers in iran. these shipments were backed by letters of credit issued by bank tejarat to a non-u.s. company acquired by pfizer in 2011. the letters of credit were issued by bank tejarat, and the zoetis products were shipped to customers in iran prior to the bank's designation as a specially designated national (sdn) under executive order 13382. after bank tejarat's designation, zoetis' non-u.s. affiliate sought payment from bank tejarat by presenting shipping documentation to the affiliate's bank in europe, and, as a result, subsequently received certain payments. not all funds related to these prior transactions were received from bank tejarat in 2012, and additional fund transfers consequently occurred in 2013. pfizer previously requested and received u.s. government authorization to process and receive such funds, which were received as a result of specific sales made prior to bank tejarat's designation as a specially designated national. for funds received in 2013, our estimated gross revenue associated with these transactions were euros 167,700. additionally, pfizer completed a transfer to zoetis in 2013 of funds associated with these transactions that it had received and disclosed for 2012. estimated gross revenue associated with those transfers was euros 222,962. other than as set forth in the notes to consolidated and combined financial statements note 18. segment, geographic and other revenue information , including the tables therein captioned selected statement of income information, geographic information and other revenue information and in the table captioned operating segment results in the md&amp;a, we do not allocate net profit on a country-by-country or activity-by-activity basis and, thus, cannot provide specific net profits ascribable to this activity. zoetis' net profits attributable to these transactions were a fraction of the gross revenue. we have informed our customers that in connection with future transactions with zoetis, bank tejarat, and any other banks designated as specially designated nationals under executive order 13382 or subsequent executive orders are not to be used. 11 | table of contents item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information in this 2013 annual report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. we generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, project, plan, predict, believe, seek, continue, outlook, may, might, will, should, can have, likely or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events. in particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to our indebtedness, our ability to make interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, our ability to satisfy the covenants contained in our indebtedness, the redemption of the notes, expectations regarding indebtedness, future use of cash and dividend payments, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, r&amp;d costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, our agreements with pfizer, government regulation and financial results. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and are potentially inaccurate assumptions. however, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. you should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business and industry restrictions and bans on the use of antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent. the issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterials resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, are the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. in some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). these restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. our total revenue attributable to antibacterials for livestock was approximately $1.2 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013. in december 2013, the fda announced final guidance establishing procedures for the voluntary phase out in the united states over a three year period of the use of medically important antibacterials in animal feed for growth promotion in food production animals (medically important antibacterials include classes that are prescribed in animal and human health). the guidance provides for continued use of antibacterials in food producing animals for treatment, control and under certain circumstances for prevention of disease, all under the supervision of a veterinarian. our total revenue attributable to medicated feed additives was approximately $446 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the fda indicated that they took this action to help preserve the efficacy of medically important antibacterials to treat infections in humans. zoetis supports the fda's efforts to voluntarily phase-out growth promotion indications for medically important antibiotics in food producing animals and will comply with procedures outlined in the december 2013 fda guidance. we cannot predict whether antibacterials resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations or public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products could cause a decline in the sales of such products. our livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. if the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. for example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition and health-related or other concerns. any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 12 | table of contents increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products. companies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. if livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, adverse regulations related, directly or indirectly, to the use of one or more of our products may injure livestock producers' market position. more stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products. an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products. sales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as bse or mad cow disease) or porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (otherwise known as pedv), which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. in addition, outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. for example, beginning in 2013 an outbreak of pedv has had serious impacts on swine herds in the united states, spreading to at least 27 swine-producing states and affecting up to 30% of the sows in the united states. the continued spread of pedv in the united states and neighboring countries could impact the size of swine herds and the demand for our swine products in these markets. in addition, in april 2012, the usda announced that it had identified a case of bse in california. this announcement caused certain countries to implement additional inspections of, or suspend the importation of, u.s. beef. additionally, in december 2012, the world animal health organization announced that a case of bse had been identified in brazil. this announcement similarly caused certain countries to suspend the importation of brazilian beef. while the restrictions that were implemented as a result of these cases of bse have not significantly affected demand for our products, the discovery of additional cases of bse may result in additional restrictions related to, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. consolidation of our customers could negatively affect the pricing of our products. veterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. in recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. in addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, have seen recent consolidation in their industries. if these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. the resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business may be negatively affected by weather conditions and the availability of natural resources. the animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in a particular region are affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. as a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. in addition, veterinary hospitals and practitioners depend on visits from and access to animals under their care. veterinarians' patient volume and ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience prolonged snow, ice or other weather conditions, particularly in regions not accustomed to sustained inclement weather. furthermore, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. in the event of adverse weather conditions or a shortage of fresh water, veterinarians or livestock producers may purchase less of our products. for example, the widespread drought that impacted the united states in 2011, 2012 and in some regions in 2013 was considered the worst in many years, impacting both the supply of corn and the availability of grazing pasture and resulting in a reduction in the total cow herd in 2013. a decrease in harvested corn may result in higher corn prices, which may impact the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock sizes that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. reduced availability of grazing pasture may also force cattle producers to cull their herds. fewer heads of cattle would result in reduced demand for our products. a prolonged drought could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions. macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. certain of our customers and suppliers could be affected directly by an economic downturn and could face credit issues or cash flow problems that could give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. for example, the economic downturns experienced in many markets across the globe have had an impact on certain of our customers and, as a result, on our operating results in those affected markets. if one or more of our large customers, including distributors discontinue their relationship with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. 13 | table of contents our business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income. feed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. these shifts could result in a decrease in sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership. changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products. in most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. companion animal owners increasingly have the option to purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. this trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years. companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on internet-based animal health information. because we market our companion animal prescription products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. legislation has also been proposed in the united states, and may be proposed in the united states or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. for example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the american veterinary medical association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice. over time, these and other competitive conditions may increase our reliance on internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. we may be unable to sustain our current margins and we may not be adequately prepared or able to distribute our products if an increased portion of our sales is through these channels. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the animal health industry is highly competitive. the animal health industry is highly competitive. we believe many of our competitors are conducting r&amp;d activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. our competitors include the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies and specialty animal health businesses. these competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. as a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. in addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines and vaccines industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. to the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us. generic products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products. we face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. we depend on patents and data exclusivity periods to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. our patent protection for these products extends for varying periods in accordance with the dates of filing or grant and the legal life of patents in countries in which patents are granted. the protection afforded by our patents, which varies from country to country, is limited by the following in the applicable country: the scope and applicable terms of our patents and the availability and enforcement of legal remedies. as a result, we may face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products. generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of launching at risk before our patent rights expire, and their pricing, and generic products are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. in addition, private label products may compete with our products. if animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic or private label products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we estimate that approximately 80% of our revenue in 2013 was derived from products that are either unpatented (i.e., never patented or off-patent) or covered by our patents that, while providing a competitive advantage, may not provide market exclusivity. over the next several years, several of our products' patents will expire. for example, our compound patent on selamectin, the active ingredient in revolution and stronghold, expired in several countries in january 2014, which could lead to the launch of generic counterparts, if generic manufacturers are able to successfully design-around our formulation and process patents. 14 | table of contents we may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses. we may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. we may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. in addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. we may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. we also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. we may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient. these effects could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully implement our business strategies or achieve expected gross margin improvements. we are pursuing, and will continue to pursue, strategic initiatives that management considers critical to our long-term success, including, but not limited to, increasing sales in emerging markets, operational revenue growth through new product development and value-added product lifecycle development; improving operational efficiency through manufacturing efficiency improvement and other programs; using cash flow from operations to service or reduce debt; and expanding our complementary products and services. in addition to base revenue growth, we also have historically grown our business through pfizer's acquisitions of large pharmaceutical companies that had animal health businesses, including the fort dodge animal health (fdah) business of wyeth and the alpharma animal health business of king pharmaceuticals, inc. however, as a result of the separation, we are no longer able to benefit from pfizer's acquisition activity. we also have acquired or partnered with a number of smaller animal health businesses, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. there are significant risks involved with the execution of these initiatives, including significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. accordingly, we cannot predict whether we will succeed in implementing these strategic initiatives. it could take several years to realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, if any benefits are achieved at all. we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements on our products and technologies, including those acquired and those developed internally. additionally, our business strategy may change from time to time, which could delay our ability to implement initiatives that we believe are important to our business. our business could be affected adversely by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages. some of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the united states. as a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. these risks may be increased by the separation because we are no longer able to benefit from pfizer's prior relationships and negotiations relating to such agreements. we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenue and net income. in addition, labor problems at our suppliers or cmos could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. loss of our executive officers could disrupt our operations. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers. our executive officers are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. in addition, we have not entered into employment agreements with our executive officers. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officer positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. the loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. as of december 31, 2013, we had goodwill of $ 982 million and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $ 803 million . identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents and in-process r&amp;d. determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. the timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our consolidated and combined statements of income and write-downs recorded in our consolidated and combined balance sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. 15 | table of contents our historical combined financial data is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical combined financial data for the periods prior to the ipo included in this 2013 annual report does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as an independent company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. this is primarily the result of the following factors: our historical combined financial data does not reflect the separation; our historical combined financial data reflects expense allocations for certain support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within pfizer, such as expenses for business technology, facilities, legal, finance, human resources, business development, public affairs and procurement, as well as certain manufacturing and supply costs incurred by manufacturing sites that are shared with other pfizer business units that may be higher or lower than the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred, or will incur, as an independent company; our cost of debt and our capital structure will be different from that reflected in our historical combined financial statements; significant increases may occur in our cost structure as a result of our being an independent public company, including costs related to public company reporting, investor relations and compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (sarbanes-oxley act); and loss of economies of scale as a result of our no longer being a part of pfizer. our financial condition and future results of operations will be materially different from amounts reflected in our historical combined financial statements included in this 2013 annual report for the periods prior to the ipo. as a result of the separation, it may be difficult for investors to compare our future results to historical results or to evaluate our relative performance or trends in our business. as an independent public company, we are required to expend additional time and resources to comply with rules and regulations that did not previously apply to us, and failure to comply with such rules may lead investors to lose confidence in our financial data. as an independent public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act), the sarbanes-oxley act, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or the dodd-frank act, and regulations of the nyse. such requirements will increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, will make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and could be burdensome on our personnel, systems and resources. we are devoting significant resources to address these public company-associated requirements, including compliance programs and investor relations, as well as our financial reporting obligations. complying with these rules and regulations has increased and will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and makes some activities more time-consuming and costly. in particular, as a public company, our management is required to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal controls in our annual reports on form 10-k. in addition, we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to auditing standard no. 5 beginning with our annual report on form 10-k for the year ending december 31, 2014. if we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. risks related to research and development our r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle developments. our future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to r&amp;d, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties. we may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. in addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenue that are consistent with our expectations. the animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. furthermore, the timing and cost of our r&amp;d may increase, and our r&amp;d may become less predictable. for example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to research, develop and register products. products in the animal health industry are sometimes derived from molecules and compounds discovered or developed as part of human health research. in addition to the r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer, we expect to enter into other collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties to provide us with access to compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. if we are unable to access human health-generated molecules and compounds to conduct r&amp;d on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited. 16 | table of contents advances in veterinary medical practices and animal health technologies could negatively affect the market for our products. the market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including green or holistic health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. in addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our r&amp;d relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations. as an animal health medicines and vaccines business, the evaluation of our existing and new products in animals is required to register our products. animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. to the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our r&amp;d, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. risks related to manufacturing manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs. in order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship our products in sufficient quantities. we have a global manufacturing network consisting of 28 manufacturing sites located in 11 countries. in addition, 13 pfizer sites located in 12 countries manufacture certain of our products for us. included in these 13 pfizer sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, where pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a period of time. these 13 pfizer sites consist of sites operated by pfizer that, immediately prior to the separation, predominantly manufactured human health products. we also employ a network of approximately 200 cmos. many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. minor deviations in our manufacturing processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. in addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines; construction delays; equipment malfunctions; shortages of materials; labor problems; natural disasters; power outages; terrorist activities; changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. these interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results. for example, our manufacturing site in medolla, italy was damaged in an earthquake in may 2012, which resulted in production interruptions at that site. our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. the unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. in addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. we rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services and are subject to increased labor and material costs. the materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. in addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products. we may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 17 | table of contents in addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole source of certain materials necessary for production of our products. we may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. risks related to legal matters and regulation we may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. these matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of united states and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, breach of contract and tort. in addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. for example, in the united states, attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. if such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. an adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. there may be increased risk of product liability if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. for example, ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is commonly abused by humans as a hallucinogen. furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. if we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. animal health products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality, or efficacy concerns, which may harm our reputation. unanticipated safety, quality, or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to animal health products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims. for example, as a result of safety concerns related to our product, pregsure bvd, in 2010, we voluntarily suspended sales of the product and withdrew the marketing authorization in the eu and, in 2011, we suspended sales and withdrew the marketing authorization for the product in new zealand. also, in may 2013, we were advised that the european commission started a procedure regarding the eu marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv, a vaccine against porcine circovirus type 2 in swine. the initiation of the procedure followed a recall of two batches of suvaxyn pcv as a result of higher than expected adverse reactions, reported mainly in spain. in june 2013, we completed a root cause investigation of the higher than expected adverse reactions in these two batches, and subsequently submitted to the ema a proposed variation to describe specific adjustments to the manufacturing process to help minimize the risk of future reactive batches. in october 2013, the ema's committee on medicinal products for veterinary use adopted a positive opinion as to the proposed variation and concurrently adopted an opinion concluding that no action was required at this time with regard to the eu marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv. both opinions were transmitted to the european commission according to the applicable procedure and the commission officially advised us in january 2014 that it had adopted those positive opinions and concluded the procedure begun in may 2013 by maintaining the marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv in effect. regulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product's sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results. in addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, qualify or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. these concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. our business is subject to substantial regulation. we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. in connection with the separation, we will likely change the location of the manufacture of certain of our products and, because of these changes, may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. in addition, we cannot predict the nature of future laws or regulations, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. changes to such laws or regulations may include, 18 | table of contents among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the united states of income earned outside the united states. changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, regulatory agencies have recently increased their focus on the potential for vaccines to induce immunity anomalies. absent a clear understanding of these anomalies, regulatory scrutiny of vaccines may become stricter. additional scrutiny or regulation of our vaccine products could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under cercla or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. see item 1. business environmental, health and safety . the costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. our failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. risks related to our international operations a significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business. our international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: volatility in the international financial markets; compliance with governmental controls; difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and similar non-u.s. laws and regulations; compliance with foreign labor laws; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements; changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers; political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts; trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by ofac; changes in tax laws and tariffs; costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; and longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk. the multinational nature of our business subjects us to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. 19 | table of contents in addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. a failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. in addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized importation of our products between jurisdictions. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. foreign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. we conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. in 2013, we generated approximately 54% of our revenue in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, australian dollar and brazilian real. we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenue. in addition, because our financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. we also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. while we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. we currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including china and venezuela, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 venezuelan bolivar per u.s. dollar. we incurred a foreign currency loss immediately on the devaluation as a result of remeasuring the local balance sheets and we will experience ongoing impacts to earnings as our revenue and expenses will be translated at lower rates. we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar. we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets. we have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets, including by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets. failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could also materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. for example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. in addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. for example, in the past, our revenue in certain emerging markets in latin america have been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations. for all these and other reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. risks related to intellectual property the actual or purported intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business. a third party may sue us or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. if we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future. the costs of defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such claims. the intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. we cannot be certain that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not obtain rights to intellectual property that may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable or we believe we would be otherwise able to develop a more commercially successful product, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. 20 | table of contents if our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret, data protection, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. for example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. the validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, patent law reform in the united states and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights, or make such enforcement financially unattractive. for instance, in september 2011, the united states enacted the america invents act, which will permit enhanced third-party actions for challenging patents and will implement a first-to-invent system. in april 2012, australia enacted the intellectual property laws amendment (raising the bar) act, which provides higher standards for obtaining patents. in september 2013, the brazilian patent office challenged the validity and term of the so-called mailbox patents of pharmaceutical and veterinary companies which were filed in the interim period before brazil fully implemented the trade-related aspects of intellectual property right (trips) agreement's patentability standards. the action of the brazilian patent office potentially could shorten the duration or invalidate some of our patents. we have filed an appeal, but the decision will not be known for several years. these reforms could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property or limit our ability to patent our products in these jurisdictions. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. likewise, in the united states and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or relabel a product. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. many of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. the misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states, may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. in the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, or the cost of enforcing our intellectual property may outweigh the value of doing so; either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. risks related to information technology we may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites. in many markets around the world, such as the united states and brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. the operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone service or power outages; failures of the computer systems that operate our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability 21 | table of contents for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation. we depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. we rely on various information systems to manage our operations, and we increasingly depend on third parties and applications on virtualized (cloud) infrastructure to operate and support our information technology systems. these third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. failure by these providers to adequately service our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in connection with the ipo and the separation, we have substantially changed a number of our business processes, including our financial reporting and supply chain processes. in order to support the new business processes under the terms of our transitional services agreement with pfizer, we have made significant configuration and data changes within some of our information technology systems. if our information technology and processes are not sufficient to support our business and financial reporting functions, or if we fail to properly implement our new business processes, our financial reporting may be delayed or inaccurate and our operations may be adversely affected and, as a result, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, over the next few years, we expect to implement new business systems to support our operations including an enterprise resource planning system to better integrate our manufacturing, financial, commercial and business operations. transitioning to new systems, integrating new systems into current systems or any disruptions or malfunctions (including from circumstances beyond our control) affecting our information systems could cause critical information upon which we rely to be delayed, unreliable, corrupted, insufficient or inaccessible. any of these potential issues, individually or in aggregation, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. even if we are able to implement these systems successfully, all technology systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if our information technology systems were to fail or be breached, this could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised. we may be unable to adequately protect our customers' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws. the protection of customer, employee and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, our customers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. despite our considerable efforts and technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. our systems and procedures meet the payment card industry (pci) data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance. failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. in addition, pci is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in pci's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with pci security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. risks related to our indebtedness we have substantial indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $3.6 billion of total unsecured indebtedness outstanding. in addition, we have entered into an agreement for a five-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future. we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; impacting our effective tax rate; and 22 | table of contents increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. for example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with subsidiaries and incur priority indebtedness. our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including certain international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock. we may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes. upon the occurrence of a change of control of us and a downgrade below investment grade by moody's investor services, inc. and standard &amp; poor's rating services, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. we did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the pfizer-owned notes and we paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to pfizer prior to the completion of the ipo. as a result of these and other factors, we may not have sufficient funds available to finance a change of control offer. our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes. the credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs. risks related to our relationship with pfizer we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation and exchange offer. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation and exchange offer, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. these expected benefits include the following: improving strategic and operational flexibility, increasing management focus and streamlining decision-making by providing the flexibility to implement our strategic plan and to respond more effectively to different customer needs and the changing economic environment; allowing us to adopt the capital structure, investment policy and dividend policy best suited to our financial profile and business needs, without competing for capital with pfizer's other businesses; creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock; and 23 | table of contents facilitating incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhancing employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives of our business. we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the separation and exchange offer for a variety of reasons, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. as a result of the separation, we have lost pfizer's brand, reputation, capital base and other resources. prior to the ipo, as a business unit of pfizer, we generally used the name pfizer animal health, and we believe the association with pfizer and pfizer's globally recognized brand and perceived high-quality products contributed to our ability to build relationships with our customers. our loss of the use of the pfizer name could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, which could result in reduced sales of our products, and could impact our ability to attract and retain colleagues, which could result in extended vacancies in key or critical positions. the loss of pfizer's scale, capital base and financial strength may also prompt suppliers to reprice, modify or terminate their relationships with us. in addition, our separation from pfizer may cause some of our existing agreements and licenses to be terminated. pfizer may compete with us. pfizer is not restricted from competing with us in the animal health business, including as a result of acquiring a company that operates an animal health business. due to the significant resources of pfizer, including financial resources, name recognition and know-how resulting from the previous management of our business, pfizer could have a significant competitive advantage over us should it decide to engage in the type of business we conduct, which may cause our operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with pfizer. certain of our directors are employed by pfizer or may own pfizer common stock, options to purchase pfizer common stock or other pfizer equity awards. certain of these holdings may be individually significant to these directors as compared with such director's total assets. these directors' positions at pfizer and the ownership of any pfizer equity or equity awards may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for pfizer than for us. pfizer and its directors and officers have limited liability to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty. our certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to any contractual provision to the contrary, pfizer will have no obligation to refrain from: engaging in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as we do; doing business with any of our clients or consumers; or employing or otherwise engaging any of our officers or employees. under our certificate of incorporation, neither pfizer nor any officer or director of pfizer, except as provided in our certificate of incorporation, is liable to us or to our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of any of these activities. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in other transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 3.250% senior notes due 2023 and using our common stock to make acquisitions in connection with equity capital market transactions that might increase the value of our business. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer tax matters agreement. we may not be able to fully realize the expected benefits of our r&amp;d agreement with pfizer. prior to the separation, as a business unit of pfizer, we had the ability to leverage pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to identify, research and develop compounds suitable as new product candidates for the animal health field. as part of the separation, we entered into an r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer, which is referred to as the r&amp;d agreement. pursuant to the r&amp;d agreement, subject to certain restrictions, we have continued access to pfizer's compound library and database for a period of seven years from the date of the ipo and have, subject to pfizer's approval, the possibility to exclusively license compounds from pfizer that we develop under the r&amp;d agreement. while the r&amp;d agreement is intended to supplement our post-separation r&amp;d capabilities, certain terms of the r&amp;d agreement may limit our ability to achieve this expected benefit, including: pfizer will retain ownership of, and license to us, the intellectual property that we develop under the r&amp;d agreement. in many circumstances, the intellectual property we license from pfizer will be non-exclusive as to pfizer and third parties. we are not assured access to pfizer's newest programs. pfizer can prevent us from progressing pre-development compounds and, under certain circumstances, pfizer may terminate our rights to a development stage compound by paying us the fair market value for such compound. 24 | table of contents the r&amp;d agreement may be terminated before the expiration of the seven year term in certain circumstances, including if we acquire an interest in, or assets of, a human pharmaceutical business, enter into a definitive agreement relating to, or undergo, a change of control or if pfizer acquires, or is acquired by, an animal health business. each of the foregoing terms and pfizer's other rights under the r&amp;d agreement and related licenses (if any), could limit our ability to realize the expected benefits of the r&amp;d agreement. if we fail to achieve the expected benefits of the r&amp;d agreement, it may be more difficult, time consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products. for a summary description of the terms of the r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement, see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer research and development collaboration and license agreement. pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products. under the patent and know-how license agreement (pfizer as licensor) (the patent and know-how license agreement), pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. if we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. in addition, in circumstances where pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or, in limited instances, subject to pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. these limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. for a summary description of the terms of the patent and know-how license (pfizer as licensor), see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer intellectual property license agreements. we are dependent on pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. under the patent and know-how license agreement, pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that pfizer licenses to us. in the animal health field, pfizer has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such licensed patents, and in the human health field, subject to certain exceptions, pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents. if pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under this agreement, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we have incurred and will continue to incur significant charges in connection with the separation and incremental costs as an independent public company. we will need to replicate or replace certain functions, systems and infrastructure to which we no longer have the same access after the separation. we may also need to make investments or hire additional employees to operate without the same access to pfizer's existing operational and administrative infrastructure. these initiatives may be costly to implement. due to the scope and complexity of the underlying projects relative to these efforts, the amount of total costs could be materially higher than our estimate, and the timing of the incurrence of these costs is subject to change. prior to the separation, pfizer performed or supported many important corporate functions for our company. our combined financial statements reflect charges for these services on an allocation basis. following the separation, many of these services will be governed by our transitional services agreement with pfizer. under the transitional services agreement we are able to use these pfizer services for a fixed term established on a service-by-service basis. however, we generally have the right to terminate a service earlier if we give notice to pfizer. partial reduction in the provision of any service requires pfizer's consent. in addition, either party is able to terminate the agreement due to a material breach of the other party, upon prior written notice, subject to limited cure periods. we pay pfizer mutually agreed-upon fees for these services, based on pfizer's costs of providing the services. during the two years following the ipo, the markup for these services will be 0% and, for the remainder of the term of the agreement, pfizer may introduce a markup of 7%, which we believe is consistent with arm's length pricing for the services provided. however, since our transitional services agreement was negotiated in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship, the terms of the agreement, including the fees charged for the services, may be higher or lower than those that would be agreed to by parties bargaining at arm's length for similar services and may be higher or lower than the costs reflected in the allocations in our historical financial statements. third party costs are passed through to us at pfizer's or its affiliates' cost. in addition, while these services are being provided to us by pfizer, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to such services or the amounts we pay for them is limited. we may not be able to replace these services or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those that we receive from pfizer under our transitional services agreement. additionally, after the agreement terminates, we may be unable to sustain the services at the same levels or obtain the same benefits as when we were receiving such services and benefits from pfizer. when we begin to operate these functions separately, if we do not have our own adequate systems and business functions in place, or are unable to obtain them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our business effectively or at comparable costs, and our profitability may decline. if there is a later determination that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986 (the code). completion by pfizer of the exchange offer was conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of pfizer's private 25 | table of contents letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of pfizer or us after the exchange offer. if the exchange offer or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment in zoetis common stock as a result. our common stock has a limited trading history and there may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our common stock as a result of many factors. from our ipo through december 31, 2013, the sales price of our common stock as reported by the nyse has ranged from a low sales price of $28.81 on august 28, 2013 to a high sales price of $35.42 on march 14, 2013. some factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section and in our 2013 annual report, are: our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; our or our competitors' press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; changes in our investor base; failures to meet external expectations or management guidance; fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, including as a result of the exchange offer, future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; reputational issues; changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business; the arrival or departure of key personnel; the actions of speculators and financial arbitrageurs (such as hedge funds) during and after the exchange offer; changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and other developments or changes affecting us, our industry or our competitors. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. while we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. on december 18, 2013, our board of directors declared the 2014 first quarter dividend of $0.072 per share paid on march 4, 2014 to holders of record on january 30, 2014. although we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock. we anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows available in the united states, impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as our by-laws, contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids 26 | table of contents and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. in addition, delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a significant portion of our revenue and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. in addition, our outstanding borrowings may be subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using certain financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. foreign exchange risk our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, brazilian real and australian dollar. prior to the ipo, as a business unit of pfizer and under pfizer's global cash management system, our foreign exchange risk was managed through pfizer. following the separation, we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenue in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. our financial instruments at december 31, 2013 were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined using level 2 inputs. for additional details, see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements note 4. significant accounting policies fair value . the sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency forward-exchange contracts at december 31, 2013 indicates that if the u.s. dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of 60 | these contracts would increase by $ 46 million , and if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $ 42 million . for additional details, see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements note 10b. financial instruments derivative financial instruments . interest rate risk our outstanding debt balances are fixed rate debt. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on our fixed rate debt, interest on our revolving credit facility will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2013 , we had no outstanding principal balance under our credit facility. see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements note 10. financial instruments . 61 | table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors risks related to our international operations . sales and marketing our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products. our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to provide information and to promote and sell our products and services. our technical and veterinary operations specialists, who generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees, provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use. these direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. as a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. as of december 31, 2014 , our sales organization consisted of approximately 3,600 employees. our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. on a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. we also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners. customers we sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork and poultry operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that typically then sell the products to livestock producers. we primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 11% and 6%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2014 , and no other customer represented more than 4% of our revenue for the same period. 6 | table of contents research and development our r&amp;d operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine r&amp;d organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development or registration of our products. we spent $ 396 million in 2014 , $ 399 million in 2013 and $ 409 million in 2012 on r&amp;d. our r&amp;d efforts are comprised of more than 400 programs and reflect our commitment to better solutions. we create new insights for preventing and treating disease, and maximizing healthy performance, that result in the development of new platforms of knowledge which become the basis for continuous innovation. leveraging internal discoveries, complemented by diverse external research collaborations, results in the delivery of novel vaccine, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products to help our customers face their toughest challenges. while the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product r&amp;d plays a critical role in our growth strategies, the majority of our r&amp;d investment (including regulatory functions) is focused on product lifecycle development. a commitment to continuous innovation, based on customer need, ensures we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. we also create opportunities to optimize solutions through our extensive capabilities in diagnostics and genetics research, ensuring we can help our customers diagnose, prevent and treat a variety of conditions. we prioritize our r&amp;d spending on an annual basis with the goal of aligning our of research and business objectives, and do not disaggregate our r&amp;d operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. we make our strategic investments in r&amp;d based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. a centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend without a focus on spending by research stage or by therapeutic area. this comprehensive view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. the allocation of our r&amp;d investment between product lifecycle and new product development, in addition to our ability to leverage the discoveries of our existing r&amp;d and other industries, supports a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable r&amp;d process. prior to the ipo, we entered into an r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer pursuant to which we will maintain access to pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to develop new products, subject to certain restrictions. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer research and development collaboration and license agreement . in addition, we regularly enter into r&amp;d collaboration agreements and external alliances with other parties. as of december 31, 2014 , we employed approximately 1,100 employees in our global r&amp;d operations. our r&amp;d headquarters is located in kalamazoo, michigan. we have r&amp;d operations co-located with manufacturing sites in melbourne, australia; louvain-la-neuve, belgium; campinas, brazil; guarulhos, brazil; olot, spain; charles city, iowa, united states and lincoln, nebraska, united states. we co-locate r&amp;d operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. in addition, we maintain r&amp;d operations in zaventem, belgium; o paulo, brazil; beijing, china; mumbai, india; and college park, maryland, united states and durham, north carolina, united states. we own each of these r&amp;d facilities, with the exception of our mumbai, india facility, which we lease from pfizer. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer mumbai, india interim lease agreement . each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents. many of our research programs involve external partnerships, often with funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. we are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental direct and indirect expertise in, as well as investment for, such external partnerships. depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models. manufacturing and supply chain our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as cmos. we have a global manufacturing network of 27 sites, which utilizes centralized oversight of a system of 13 anchor and 14 satellite manufacturing sites to maximize cost efficiencies. 7 | table of contents our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites: anchor sites satellite sites site location site location catania italy campinas brazil charles city iowa, u.s. durham north carolina, u.s. chicago heights illinois, u.s. eagle grove iowa, u.s. guarulhos (1) brazil hsinchu (4) taiwan haridwar india laurinburg north carolina, u.s. jilin (2) china longmont colorado, u.s. kalamazoo (3) michigan, u.s. medolla italy lincoln nebraska, u.s. salisbury maryland, u.s. louvain-la-neuve belgium san diego california, u.s. melbourne australia shenzhou china olot spain van buren arkansas, u.s. suzhou china wellington new zealand willow island west virginia, u.s. white hall illinois, u.s. yantai china (1) this site is owned by us and leased back to pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer brazil lease agreements. (2) this site is operated by the china joint venture, jilin zoetis guoyuan animal health company, ltd. (3) prior to the separation, pfizer's manufacturing site in kalamazoo manufactured both human health and animal health products. since the separation, we own the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture animal health products and pfizer owns the portions of this site that predominantly manufacture human health products. (4) this site is operated by the taiwan joint venture, zoetis biotech manufacturing limited. we own all of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in melbourne, australia; medolla, italy; van buren, arkansas, united states; and san diego, california, united states, which are leased sites. in addition to our global manufacturing network and our cmos, pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at 11 pfizer sites located in 11 countries pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. included in these 11 pfizer sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, where pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a period of time. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer master manufacturing and supply agreements. our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of cmos. as of december 31, 2014 , this network was comprised of approximately 200 cmos, including those centrally managed as well as local cmos. we select cmos based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) their access to niche products and technologies; (iii) capacity; and (iv) financial efficiency analyses. our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the cmos we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality and are regularly audited. we purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. we utilize logistics service providers as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support. we intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including six sigma and lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. we have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and cmo sites. we are currently conducting a review of our global manufacturing and supply network to improve efficiency. competition although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as merck animal health, the animal health division of merck &amp; co., inc. (formerly known as intervet/schering-plough); merial, the animal health division of sanofi s.a.; elanco, the animal health division of eli lilly and company; bayer animal health, the animal health division of bayer ag; and boehringer ingelheim animal health, the animal health division of boehringer ingelheim gmbh. in addition, we compete with hundreds of other producers of animal health products throughout the world. the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. for example, the level of generic competition is higher in europe and certain emerging markets than in the united states. unlike in the human health market, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. the reasons for this include the relatively smaller average market 8 | table of contents size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. in addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians. our livestock products tend to experience lower generic competition than our companion animal products for several reasons: livestock producers tend to be loyal to medicines and vaccines that have been demonstrated to be efficacious because medicines and vaccines are a small portion of a livestock producer's total production costs and ineffective medicines and vaccines could result in the loss of animals, causing disproportionate harm to such producer's investment; livestock producers value the technical assistance provided through our veterinary operations' support of our products and field force; and the importance of reliable supply. the importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. as a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity. intellectual property our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. we rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate. our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 4,800 granted patents and 2,000 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with concentration in our major market countries as well as other countries with strong patent systems, such as australia, brazil, canada, europe, japan and the united states. many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our own and pfizer's work, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were at least partially developed by, and are licensed to us by, third parties. patents for individual products extend for varying periods depending on the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. several patents cover the ceftiofur product line, including formulation and use patents that begin expiring in the united states in 2015, with others extending until 2024. draxxin and convenia are covered by patents in the united states with terms that expire in 2021 and 2023, respectively. the compound patent on doramectin, which is the active ingredient in dectomax, an antiparasitic, expired in all regions; however, process patents and the injectable formulation patent for this product do not expire in the united states until 2020 and 2016, respectively. the compound patent on selamectin, which is the active ingredient in revolution, a parasiticide, expired during 2014; however, we have process and formulation patents covering this product expiring in 2018 and 2019, respectively. additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement. in order to facilitate the separation and allow pfizer and our operations to continue with minimal interruption, pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we license to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of pfizer's trademarks and we granted pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time following the completion of the ipo. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. we currently maintain more than 10,000 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals. regulatory the sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. to maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. in the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. united states united states food and drug administration (fda). the regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the united states is the center for veterinary medicine (cvm), housed within the fda. all manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. the fda's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a freedom of information summary. post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the cvm's surveillance and compliance group. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source. united states department of agriculture (usda). the regulatory body in the united states for veterinary vaccines is the usda. the usda's center for veterinary biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. all manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under 9 | table of contents the virus serum toxin act. post-approval monitoring of products is required. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements. environmental protection agency (epa). the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides is the epa. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. outside the united states european union (eu). the european medicines agency (ema) is the centralized regulatory agency of the eu, located in london. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by healthcare companies seeking centralized approval for use in the eu. the agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. the committee for veterinary medicinal products (cvmp) is responsible for scientific and technical review of the submissions for innovative pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals and vaccines. after the cvmp issues a positive opinion on the approvability of a product, the eu commission reviews the opinion and, if they agree with the cvmp, they grant the product market authorization. once granted by the european commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all eu and european economic area-european free trade association states. products can also be registered in the eu via a decentralized route under the supervision of the co-ordination group for mutual recognition and decentralized procedures - veterinary (cmdv). this co-ordination group is composed of one representative per member state from each national regulatory agency, including norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the cmdv reviews submissions of pharmaceuticals and vaccines for authorization of a veterinary product in two or more member states in accordance with the mutual recognition or the decentralized procedure. a series of regulations, directives, guidelines and eu pharmacopeia monographs provide the requirements for product approval in the eu. in general, these requirements are similar to those in the united states, requiring demonstrated evidence of, safety, efficacy, and quality/consistency of manufacturing processes. brazil. the ministry of agriculture, livestock production and supply (mapa) is the regulatory body in brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. mapa's regulatory activities are conducted through the secretary of agricultural defense and its livestock products inspection department. in addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the federal agriculture superintendence. these activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. mapa is one of the most active regulatory agencies in latin america, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as codex alimentarius, world organization for animal health and committee of veterinary medicines for the americas. mapa was also invited to be a latin american representative at meetings of the international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). several normative instructions issued by mapa have set regulatory trends in latin america. australia. the australian pesticides and veterinary medicines authority (apvma) is an australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the australian marketplace. previously each state and territory government had its own system of registration. the apvma assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the apvma's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. if the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the apvma will register the product. as well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the apvma reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job users expect and are safe to use. the apvma also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. the review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. in some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being cancelled and the product taken off the market. rest of world. country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. with the exception of the eu, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the fda, usda, eu and other international animal health entities, including the world organization for animal health, codex alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines. global policy and guidance joint fao/who expert committee on food additives. the joint fao/who expert committee on food additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the world health organization (who). they provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. we work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. this in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain. advertising and promotion review. promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. these rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. we conduct a review of promotion materials for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products. 10 | table of contents food safety inspection service/generally recognized as safe. the fda is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including generally recognized as safe substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. however, although the fda has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the food safety and inspection service, the public health agency in the usda, still retains, under the tenets of the federal meat inspection act and the poultry products inspection act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products. international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). vich is a trilateral (eu-japan-usa) program aimed at harmonizing technical requirements for veterinary product registration. the objectives of the vich are as follows: establish and implement harmonized technical requirements for the registration of veterinary medicinal products in the vich regions, which meet high quality, safety and efficacy standards and minimize the use of test animals and costs of product development. provide a basis for wider international harmonization of registration requirements. monitor and maintain existing vich guidelines, taking particular note of the ich work program and, where necessary, update these vich guidelines. ensure efficient processes for maintaining and monitoring consistent interpretation of data requirements following the implementation of vich guidelines. by means of a constructive dialogue between regulatory authorities and industry, provide technical guidance enabling response to significant emerging global issues and science that impact on regulatory requirements within the vich regions. employees as of december 31, 2014 , we had more than 10,000 employees worldwide, which included approximately 4,150 employees in the united states and approximately 5,850 in other jurisdictions. some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 50 union employees in the united states. environmental, health and safety we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. certain environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third-party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. in addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. in connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2014 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows: environmental-related capital expenditures - $1 million; and other environmental-related expenditures - $10 million. however, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. in connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. we have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all. while we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. 11 | table of contents available information the company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. on our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance at zoetis and our board of directors, including as follows: our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; zoetis policies on business conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and principal accounting officer); code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; board committees and committee charters; and ways to communicate by email with our directors. we will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our corporate secretary, zoetis inc., 100 campus drive, florham park, new jersey 07932. information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. we use our website (www.zoetis.com) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure promulgated by the sec. these disclosures are included on our website (www.zoetis.com) in the investors and news &amp; media sections. accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website (www. zoetis.com), in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. the information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, a part of this 2014 annual report, or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our references to the urls for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information in this 2014 annual report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. we generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, could, expect, intend, project, plan, predict, believe, seek, continue, outlook, may, might, will, should, can have, likely or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events. in particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to our indebtedness, our ability to make interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, our ability to satisfy the covenants contained in our indebtedness, the redemption of the notes, expectations regarding indebtedness, the repurchase of shares, future use of cash and dividend payments, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, r&amp;d costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, our agreements with pfizer, the expected timing and content of regulatory actions, government regulation and financial results. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and are potentially inaccurate assumptions. however, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. you should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business and industry restrictions and bans on the use of antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent. the issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterials resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, continue to be the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. in some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). these restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. our total revenue attributable to antibacterials for livestock was approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended december 31, 2014 . in december 2013, the fda announced final guidance establishing procedures for the voluntary phase out in the united states over a three year period of the use of medically important antibacterials in animal feed for growth promotion in food production animals (medically important antibacterials include classes that are prescribed in animal and human health). the guidance provides for continued use of antibacterials in food producing animals for treatment, control and under certain circumstances for prevention of disease, all under the supervision of a veterinarian. our total revenue attributable to medicated feed additives was approximately $479 million for the year ended december 31, 2014 . the fda indicated that they took this action to help preserve the efficacy of medically important antibacterials to treat infections in humans. zoetis supports the fda's 12 | table of contents efforts to voluntarily phase-out growth promotion indications for medically important antibiotics in food producing animals and will comply with procedures outlined in the december 2013 fda guidance. in addition, in october 2014, the french parliament passed a law that, inter-alia , prohibits rebates and discounts on antibiotics and requires the reporting of antibiotics sold to and agreements entered into with certain animal healthcare providers (including veterinarians, veterinary schools, pharmacists and students). the parliament indicated that the law is in response to a government initiative aimed at fighting antimicrobial resistance in animals and reducing the use of certain categories of antibiotics by 25% (compared to 2013) by december 31, 2016. we cannot predict whether antibacterials resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations or public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products could cause a decline in the sales of such products. our livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. if the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. for example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition and health-related or other concerns. any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products. companies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. if livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, adverse regulations related, directly or indirectly, to the use of one or more of our products may injure livestock producers' market position. more stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products. an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products. sales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, such as avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease or bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as bse or mad cow disease) or porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (otherwise known as pedv), which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. in addition, outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. for example, the outbreaks of pedv that have seriously impacted swine herds in asia since 2012 and the united states since 2013 spread to additional markets in 2014, including canada, mexico, japan, taiwan, spain and portugal. the continued spread of pedv in the united states, asia, europe and neighboring countries could impact the size of swine herds and the demand for our swine products in these markets. in addition, in 2012, the usda and the world animal health organization announced that individual cases of bse had been identified in california and brazil. these announcements caused certain countries to implement additional inspections of, or suspend the importation of, u.s. and brazilian beef. while the restrictions that were implemented as a result of these cases of bse have not significantly affected demand for our products, the discovery of additional cases of bse may result in additional restrictions related to, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. consolidation of our customers could negatively affect the pricing of our products. veterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. in recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. in addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, have seen recent consolidation in their industries. if these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. the resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business may be negatively affected by weather conditions and the availability of natural resources. the animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in a particular region are affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. as a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. in addition, veterinary hospitals and practitioners depend on visits from and access to animals under their care. veterinarians' patient volume and ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience prolonged snow, ice or other weather conditions, particularly in regions not accustomed to sustained inclement weather. furthermore, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. in the event of adverse weather conditions or a shortage of fresh water, veterinarians or livestock producers may purchase less of our products. 13 | table of contents for example, the widespread drought that impacted the united states in 2011, 2012 and in some regions in 2013 was considered the worst in many years, impacting both the supply of corn and the availability of grazing pasture and resulting in a reduction in the total cow herd in 2013. a decrease in harvested corn may result in higher corn prices, which may impact the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock sizes that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. reduced availability of grazing pasture may also force cattle producers to cull their herds. fewer heads of cattle would result in reduced demand for our products. a prolonged drought could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions. macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. certain of our customers and suppliers could be affected directly by an economic downturn and could face credit issues or cash flow problems that could give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. for example, the economic downturns experienced in many markets across the globe have had an impact on certain of our customers and, as a result, on our operating results in those affected markets. if one or more of our large customers, including distributors discontinue their relationship with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. furthermore, our exposure to credit and collectability risk is higher in certain international markets and our ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit and collectability risk, there can be no assurances such procedures will effectively limit such risk and avoid losses. our business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income. feed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. these shifts could result in a decrease in sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership. changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products. in most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. companion animal owners increasingly have the option to purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. this trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years. companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on internet-based animal health information. because we market our companion animal prescription products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. legislation has also been proposed in the united states, and may be proposed in the united states or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. for example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the american veterinary medical association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice. over time, these and other competitive conditions may increase our reliance on internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. we may be unable to sustain our current margins and we may not be adequately prepared or able to distribute our products if an increased portion of our sales is through these channels. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the animal health industry is highly competitive. the animal health industry is highly competitive. we believe many of our competitors are conducting r&amp;d activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. our competitors include the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies and specialty animal health businesses. there are several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. these competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. as a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. in addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines and vaccines industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. to the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us. 14 | table of contents generic products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products. we face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. we depend on patents and data exclusivity periods to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. our patent protection for these products extends for varying periods in accordance with the dates of filing or grant and the legal life of patents in countries in which patents are granted. the protection afforded by our patents, which varies from country to country, is limited by the following in the applicable country: the scope and applicable terms of our patents and the availability and enforcement of legal remedies. as a result, we may face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products. generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of launching at risk before our patent rights expire, and their pricing, and generic products are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. in addition, private label products may compete with our products. if animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic or private label products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we estimate that approximately 80% of our revenue in 2014 was derived from products that are either unpatented (i.e., never patented or off-patent) or covered by our patents that, while providing a competitive advantage, may not provide market exclusivity. over the next several years, several of our products' patents will expire. for example, our compound patent on selamectin, the active ingredient in revolution and stronghold, expired in several countries in january 2014, which could lead to the launch of generic counterparts, if generic manufacturers are able to successfully design-around our formulation and process patents. we may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses. we may pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. we may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. in addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. we may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. we also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. we may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient. these effects could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully implement our business strategies or achieve expected gross margin improvements. we are pursuing, and will continue to pursue, strategic initiatives that management considers critical to our long-term success, including, but not limited to, increasing sales in emerging markets, operational revenue growth through new product development and value-added product lifecycle development; improving operational efficiency through manufacturing efficiency improvement and other programs; using cash flow from operations to service or reduce debt; and expanding our complementary products and services. in addition to base revenue growth, we also have historically grown our business through pfizer's acquisitions of large pharmaceutical companies that had animal health businesses, including the fort dodge animal health (fdah) business of wyeth and the alpharma animal health business of king pharmaceuticals, inc. however, as a result of the separation, we are no longer able to benefit from pfizer's acquisition activity. we also have acquired or partnered with a number of smaller animal health businesses, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. there are significant risks involved with the execution of these initiatives, including significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. accordingly, we cannot predict whether we will succeed in implementing these strategic initiatives. it could take several years to realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, if any benefits are achieved at all. we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements on our products and technologies, including those acquired and those developed internally. additionally, our business strategy may change from time to time, which could delay our ability to implement initiatives that we believe are important to our business. our business could be affected adversely by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages. some of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the united states. as a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. these risks may be increased by the separation because we are no longer able to benefit from pfizer's prior relationships and negotiations relating to such agreements. we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenue and net income. in addition, labor problems at our suppliers or cmos could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. loss of our executive officers could disrupt our operations. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers. our executive officers are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. in addition, we have not entered into employment agreements with our executive officers. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officer positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. the loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 15 | table of contents we may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. as of december 31, 2014, we had goodwill of $ 976 million and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $ 727 million . identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents and in-process r&amp;d. determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. the timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our consolidated and combined statements of income and write-downs recorded in our consolidated balance sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our historical combined financial data is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical combined financial data for the periods prior to the ipo (the years ended december 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and the period ended january 31, 2013) included in this 2014 annual report does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as an independent company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. this is primarily the result of the following factors: our historical combined financial data does not reflect the separation; our historical combined financial data reflects expense allocations for certain support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within pfizer, such as expenses for business technology, facilities, legal, finance, human resources, business development, public affairs and procurement, as well as certain manufacturing and supply costs incurred by manufacturing sites that are shared with other pfizer business units that may be higher or lower than the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred, or will incur, as an independent company; our cost of debt and our capital structure is different from that reflected in our historical combined financial statements; significant increases may occur in our cost structure as a result of our being an independent public company, including costs related to public company reporting, investor relations and compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (sarbanes-oxley act); and loss of economies of scale as a result of our no longer being a part of pfizer. our financial condition and future results of operations will be materially different from amounts reflected in our historical combined financial statements included in this 2014 annual report for the periods prior to the ipo. as a result of the separation, it may be difficult for investors to compare our future results to historical results or to evaluate our relative performance or trends in our business. as an independent public company, we are required to expend additional time and resources to comply with rules and regulations that did not previously apply to us, and failure to comply with such rules may lead investors to lose confidence in our financial data. as an independent public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act), the sarbanes-oxley act, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or the dodd-frank act, and regulations of the nyse. such requirements have increased our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, have made some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and require additional resources. we are devoting significant resources to address these public company-associated requirements, including compliance programs and investor relations, as well as our financial reporting obligations. complying with these rules and regulations has increased and will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and makes some activities more time-consuming and costly. in particular, as a public company, our management is required to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal controls in our annual reports on form 10-k. in addition, we are required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to auditing standard no. 5 beginning with this 2014 annual report. if we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. risks related to research and development our r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle developments. our future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to r&amp;d, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties. we may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. in addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenue that are consistent with our expectations. the animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. furthermore, the timing and cost of our r&amp;d may increase, and our r&amp;d may become less predictable. for example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to research, develop and register products. 16 | table of contents products in the animal health industry are sometimes derived from molecules and compounds discovered or developed as part of human health research. in addition to the r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer, we expect to enter into other collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties to provide us with access to compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. if we are unable to access human health-generated molecules and compounds to conduct r&amp;d on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited. advances in veterinary medical practices and animal health technologies could negatively affect the market for our products. the market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including green or holistic health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. in addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our r&amp;d relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations. as an animal health medicines and vaccines business, the evaluation of our existing and new products in animals is required to register our products. animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. to the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our r&amp;d, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. risks related to manufacturing manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs. in order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship our products in sufficient quantities. we have a global manufacturing network consisting of 27 manufacturing sites located in 10 countries. in addition, 11 pfizer sites located in 11 countries manufacture certain of our products for us. included in these pfizer sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, where pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a period of time. these pfizer sites consist of sites operated by pfizer that, immediately prior to the separation, predominantly manufactured human health products. we also employ a network of approximately 200 cmos. many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. minor deviations in our manufacturing or logistical processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. in addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers, including logistical service providers, to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines; construction delays; equipment malfunctions; shortages of materials; labor problems; natural disasters; power outages; criminal and terrorist activities; changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. these interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results. for example, our manufacturing site in medolla, italy was damaged in an earthquake in may 2012, which resulted in production interruptions at that site. our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. the unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. in addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. 17 | table of contents we rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services and are subject to increased labor and material costs. the materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. in addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products. we may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole source of certain materials necessary for production of our products. we may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. risks related to legal matters and regulation we may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. these matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of united states and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, breach of contract and tort. in addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. for example, in the united states, attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. if such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. an adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. there may be increased risk of product liability if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. for example, ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is commonly abused by humans as a hallucinogen. furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. if we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products or of stolen, diverted or relabeled products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products that do not meet the exacting standards of our development, manufacturing and distribution processes. counterfeit or illegally compounded medicines pose a significant risk to animal health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents. counterfeit or illegally compounded products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening to animals. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or illegally compounded products sold under our brand name. in addition, products stolen or unlawfully diverted from inventory, warehouses, plants or while in transit, which are not properly stored or which have been repackaged or relabeled and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact animal health and safety, our reputation and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of vaccines and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, illegally compounding or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. animal health products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality, or efficacy concerns, which may harm our reputation. unanticipated safety, quality, or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to animal health products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims. for example, as a result of safety concerns related to our product, pregsure bvd, in 2010, we voluntarily suspended sales of the product and withdrew the marketing authorization in the eu and, in 2011, we suspended sales and withdrew the marketing authorization for the product in new zealand. also, in may 2013, we were advised that the european commission started a procedure regarding the eu marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv, a vaccine against porcine circovirus type 2 in swine. the initiation of the procedure followed a recall of two batches of suvaxyn pcv as a result of higher than expected adverse reactions, reported mainly in spain. in june 2013, we completed a root cause investigation of the higher than expected adverse reactions in these two batches, and subsequently submitted to the ema a proposed variation to describe specific adjustments to the manufacturing process to help minimize the risk of future reactive batches. in october 2013, the ema's committee on medicinal products for veterinary use adopted a positive opinion as to the proposed variation and concurrently adopted an opinion concluding that no action was required at that time with regard to the eu marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv. both opinions were transmitted to the european commission according to the applicable procedure and the commission officially advised us in january 2014 that it had adopted those positive opinions and concluded the procedure begun in may 2013 by maintaining the marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv in effect. 18 | table of contents regulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product's sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results. in addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, qualify or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. these concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. our business is subject to substantial regulation. as a global company, we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of our products. in addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory agencies. an inspection may report conditions or practices that indicate possible violations of regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with these regulatory requirements, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in, among other things, inspection observation notices, warning letters or similar regulatory correspondence, fines, a partial or total shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while an alleged violation is remediated, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims. any one of these consequences could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. in connection with the separation, we will likely change the location of the manufacture of certain of our products and, because of these changes, may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. furthermore, we cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, or changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the united states of income earned outside the united states. changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, regulatory agencies have recently increased their focus on the potential for vaccines to induce immunity anomalies. absent a clear understanding of these anomalies, regulatory scrutiny of vaccines may become stricter. additional scrutiny or regulation of our vaccine products could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under cercla or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. see item 1. business environmental, health and safety . the costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. our failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. risks related to our international operations a significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business. our international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: volatility in the international financial markets; 19 | table of contents compliance with governmental controls; difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; parallel trade in our products (importation of our products from european union countries where our products are sold at lower prices into european union countries where the products are sold at higher prices); compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the fcpa and similar non-u.s. laws and regulations; compliance with foreign labor laws; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements; changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers; political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts; trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by the ofac and the european union, in relation to our products or the products of farmers and other customers (e.g., restrictions on the importation of agricultural products from the european union to russia) ; changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs; imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions; costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; and longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk. in addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. a failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. in addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized importation or unauthorized re-importation of our products between jurisdictions and may also result in the imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. foreign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. we conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. in 2014, we generated approximately 53% of our revenue in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, australian dollar and brazilian real. we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenue. in addition, because our financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. for example, on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 venezuelan bolivars per u.s. dollar. we incurred a foreign currency loss of $9 million immediately on the devaluation as a result of remeasuring the local assets and liabilities, which is included in other (income)/deductions net for the year ended december 31, 2013. our venezuelan subsidiary's functional currency is the u.s. dollar because of the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. in the first quarter of 2014, the venezuelan government expanded its exchange mechanisms, resulting in three official rates of exchange for the venezuelan bolivar. as of december 31, 2014, the venezuelan bolivar to u.s. dollar exchange rates were the cencoex rate of 6.3; the sicad i rate of 12.0; and the sicad ii rate of 49.99. we continue to use the cencoex rate of 6.3 to report our venezuela financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we may experience adverse impacts to earnings as our revenue, costs and expenses may be translated into u.s. dollars at lower rates. these impacts are not expected to be significant to our financial condition or results of operations. as of november 30, 2014, we had net monetary assets denominated in local currency of $56 million in venezuela and other consolidated entities had receivables from our venezuela business of $37 million. for the year ended november 30, 2014, our revenue from the venezuelan market was approximately $77 million. these amounts may grow in the future. on february 10, 2015, the venezuelan government announced that they would continue to operate with a three-tier exchange rate system and that the primary rate of 6.3 bolivars to the dollar would remain in place for imports that are deemed essential. a new free-floating rate (simadi) will replace the existing third-tier rate (sicad ii). we cannot predict whether there will be further devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar or whether our use of the 6.3 rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. further, other potential actions by the venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. 20 | table of contents we also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. while we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or be unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. we currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including china and venezuela, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets. we have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets, including by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets. failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could also materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. for example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. in addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. for example, in the past, our revenue in certain emerging markets in latin america have been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations. for all these and other reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. risks related to tax matters the company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or foreign tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. the multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the u.s and numerous foreign jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. for example, the european commission has opened formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in certain european countries, including belgium, comply with european union rules on state aid. the outcome of the european commission's investigations could require changes to existing tax rulings that, in turn, could have an impact on the company's taxes. in addition, our effective tax rate is subject to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. the company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if the company's effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or other material foreign jurisdictions, or if the ultimate determination of the company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the company's operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property the actual or purported intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business. a third party may sue us or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. if we do not prevail in this type of litigation, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future. the costs of defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such claims. the intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. we cannot be certain that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not obtain rights to intellectual property that may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable or we believe we would be otherwise able to develop a more commercially successful product, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. if our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret, data protection, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if 21 | table of contents we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. for example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. the validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, patent law reform in the united states and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights, or make such enforcement financially unattractive. for instance, in september 2011, the united states enacted the america invents act, which will permit enhanced third-party actions for challenging patents and will implement a first-to-invent system. in april 2012, australia enacted the intellectual property laws amendment (raising the bar) act, which provides higher standards for obtaining patents. similarly, in 2012, argentina enacted new regulations regarding the patentability of formulations, methods and processes which raises the standards for such patents. in september 2013, the brazilian patent office challenged the validity and term of the so-called mailbox patents of pharmaceutical and veterinary companies which were filed in the interim period before brazil fully implemented the trade-related aspects of intellectual property right (trips) agreement's patentability standards. the action of the brazilian patent office potentially could shorten the duration or invalidate some of our patents. we have filed an appeal, but the decision will not be known for several years. these reforms could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property or limit our ability to patent our products in these jurisdictions. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. likewise, in the united states and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or re-label a product. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. many of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. the misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states, may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. in the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, or the cost of enforcing our intellectual property may outweigh the value of doing so; either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. risks related to information technology we depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems to manage our operations, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. system failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our customers, or delay our financial reporting. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we depend on third parties and applications on virtualized (cloud) infrastructure to operate and support our information systems. these third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. failure by these providers to adequately support our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in connection with the ipo and the separation, we have substantially changed a number of our business processes, including our financial reporting and supply chain processes. in order to support the new business processes under the terms of our transitional services agreement with pfizer, we have made significant configuration and data changes within some of our information technology systems. if our information and processes are not sufficient to support our business and financial reporting functions, or if we fail to properly implement our new business processes, our financial 22 | table of contents reporting may be delayed or inaccurate and our operations may be adversely affected and, as a result, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, we are implementing new business systems to support our operations, including an enterprise resource planning (erp) system to better integrate our manufacturing, financial, commercial and business operations. there is risk associated with ensuring that the milestones, timelines and budget associated with these new systems stay on track. transitioning to new systems, integrating new systems into current systems or any disruptions or malfunctions (including from circumstances beyond our control) affecting our information systems could cause critical information upon which we rely to be delayed, unreliable, corrupted, insufficient or inaccessible. any of these potential issues, individually or in aggregation, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. even if we are able to implement these systems successfully, all information systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if our information systems were to fail or be breached, such failure or breach could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised. we may experience difficulties with the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system, which could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are engaged in a multi-year implementation of an erp. the erp is designed to accurately maintain our books and records and provide information important to the operation of our business to our management team. the implementation of the erp will require significant investment of human and financial resources. in implementing the erp, we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties. while we have invested significant resources in planning, project management and training, additional and significant implementation issues may arise. any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the erp could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship product, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites. in many markets around the world, such as the united states and brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. the operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone service or power outages; failures of the information systems that support our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation. we may be unable to adequately protect our information technology systems from cyber-attacks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and subject us to significant financial and legal exposure. our reputation as a global leader in animal health and our reliance on complex information systems make us inherently vulnerable to malicious cyber intrusion and attack. cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. cyber-attacks could include wrongful conduct by hostile foreign governments, industrial espionage, the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service, and other means to threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. a successful cyber-attack could cause serious negative consequences for our company, including the disruption of operations, the misappropriation of confidential business information and trade secrets, and the disclosure of corporate strategic plans. like other global companies, we have experienced threats to our data and information technology systems. to date, those threats have not had a material impact on our business operations or financial condition. however, although we devote resources to protect our information technology systems, we expect cyber-attacks to continue, and there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent information security breaches that would result in business, legal or reputational harm to us, or would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our customers' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws. the protection of customer, employee and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, our customers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws could result in lost sales, remediation costs, legal liability including severe penalties, regulatory action and reputational harm. despite our considerable efforts and investments in technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. in addition, the payment card industry (pci) is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in pci's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with pci security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. risks related to our indebtedness we have substantial indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $3.6 billion of total unsecured indebtedness outstanding. in addition, we have entered into an agreement 23 | table of contents for a five-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future. we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; impacting our effective tax rate; and increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. for example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with affiliates and incur priority indebtedness. our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including certain international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock. we may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes. upon the occurrence of a change of control of us and a downgrade below investment grade by moody's investor services, inc. and standard &amp; poor's rating services, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. we did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the pfizer-owned notes and we paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to pfizer prior to the completion of the ipo. as a result of these and other factors, we may not have sufficient funds available to finance a change of control offer. our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes. the credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any 24 | table of contents announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs. risks related to our relationship with pfizer we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. these expected benefits include the following: improving strategic and operational flexibility, increasing management focus and streamlining decision-making by providing the flexibility to implement our strategic plan and to respond more effectively to different customer needs and the changing economic environment; allowing us to adopt the capital structure, investment policy and dividend policy best suited to our financial profile and business needs, without competing for capital with pfizer's other businesses; creating an independent equity structure that will facilitate our ability to effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock; and facilitating incentive compensation arrangements for employees more directly tied to the performance of our business, and enhancing employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives of our business. we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the separation for a variety of reasons, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. pfizer may compete with us. pfizer is not restricted from competing with us in the animal health business, including as a result of acquiring a company that operates an animal health business. due to the significant resources of pfizer, including financial resources, name recognition and know-how resulting from the previous management of our business, pfizer could have a significant competitive advantage over us should it decide to engage in the type of business we conduct, which may cause our operating results and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with pfizer. certain of our directors are employed by pfizer or may own pfizer common stock, options to purchase pfizer common stock or other pfizer equity awards. certain of these holdings may be individually significant to these directors as compared with such director's total assets. these directors' positions at pfizer and the ownership of any pfizer equity or equity awards may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for pfizer than for us. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or engage in other transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 3.250% senior notes due 2023 and using our common stock to make acquisitions in connection with equity capital market transactions that might increase the value of our business. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer tax matters agreement. we may not be able to fully realize the expected benefits of our r&amp;d agreement with pfizer. prior to the separation, as a business unit of pfizer, we had the ability to leverage pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to identify, research and develop compounds suitable as new product candidates for the animal health field. as part of the separation, we entered into an r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer, which is referred to as the r&amp;d agreement. pursuant to the r&amp;d agreement, subject to certain restrictions, we have continued access to pfizer's compound library and database for a period of seven years from the date of the ipo and have, subject to pfizer's approval, the possibility to exclusively license compounds from pfizer that we develop under the r&amp;d agreement. while the r&amp;d agreement is intended to supplement our post-separation r&amp;d capabilities, certain terms of the r&amp;d agreement may limit our ability to achieve this expected benefit, including: pfizer will retain ownership of, and license to us, the intellectual property that we develop under the r&amp;d agreement. in many circumstances, the intellectual property we license from pfizer will be non-exclusive as to pfizer and third parties. we are not assured access to pfizer's newest programs. pfizer can prevent us from progressing pre-development compounds and, under certain circumstances, pfizer may terminate our rights to a development stage compound by paying us the fair market value for such compound. the r&amp;d agreement may be terminated before the expiration of the seven year term in certain circumstances, including if we acquire an interest in, or assets of, a human pharmaceutical business, enter into a definitive agreement relating to, or undergo, a change of control or if pfizer acquires, or is acquired by, an animal health business. each of the foregoing terms and pfizer's other rights under the r&amp;d agreement and related licenses (if any), could limit our ability to realize the expected benefits of the r&amp;d agreement. if we fail to achieve the expected benefits of the r&amp;d agreement, it may be more difficult, time-consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products. 25 | table of contents for a summary description of the terms of the r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement, see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer research and development collaboration and license agreement. pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products. under the patent and know-how license agreement (pfizer as licensor) (the patent and know-how license agreement), pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. if we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. in addition, in circumstances where pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or, in limited instances, subject to pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. these limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time-consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. for a summary description of the terms of the patent and know-how license (pfizer as licensor), see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer intellectual property license agreements. we are dependent on pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. under the patent and know-how license agreement, pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that pfizer licenses to us. in the animal health field, pfizer has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such licensed patents, and in the human health field, subject to certain exceptions, pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents. if pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under this agreement, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we have incurred and will continue to incur significant charges in connection with the separation and incremental costs as an independent public company. prior to the separation, pfizer performed or supported many important corporate functions for our company. our combined financial statements reflect charges for these services on an allocation basis. following the separation, many of these services are governed by our transitional services agreement with pfizer. under the transitional services agreement we are able to use these pfizer services for a fixed term established on a service-by-service basis. however, we generally have the right to terminate a service earlier if we give notice to pfizer. partial reduction in the provision of any service requires pfizer's consent. in addition, either party is able to terminate the agreement due to a material breach of the other party, upon prior written notice, subject to limited cure periods. we pay pfizer mutually agreed-upon fees for these services, based on pfizer's costs of providing the services. during the two years following the ipo, the markup for these services was 0% and, for the remainder of the term of the agreement, pfizer may introduce a markup of 7%. for the services that pfizer continues to provide to zoetis under this agreement, a 7% markup will apply for the remainder of 2015. we believe this markup is consistent with arm's length pricing for the services provided. however, since our transitional services agreement was negotiated in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship, the terms of the agreement, including the fees charged for the services, may be higher or lower than those that would be agreed to by parties bargaining at arm's length for similar services and may be higher or lower than the costs reflected in the allocations in our historical financial statements. third-party costs are passed through to us at pfizer's or its affiliates' cost. in addition, while these services are being provided to us by pfizer, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to such services or the amounts we pay for them is limited. we may not be able to replace these services or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those that we receive from pfizer under our transitional services agreement. additionally, after the agreement terminates, we may be unable to sustain the services at the same levels or obtain the same benefits as when we were receiving such services and benefits from pfizer. when we begin to operate these functions separately, if we do not have our own adequate systems and business functions in place, or are unable to obtain them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our business effectively or at comparable costs, and our profitability may decline. if there is a later determination that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986 (the code). completion by pfizer of the exchange offer was conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of pfizer or us after the exchange offer. if the exchange offer or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement. 26 | table of contents risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment in zoetis common stock as a result. our common stock has a limited trading history and there may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our common stock as a result of many factors. from our ipo through december 31, 2014, the sales price of our common stock as reported by the nyse has ranged from a low sales price of $28.14 on april 15, 2014 to a high sales price of $45.24 on december 1, 2014. some factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section and in our 2014 annual report, are: our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; our or our competitors' press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; changes in our investor base; failures to meet external expectations or management guidance; fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, including as a result of the exchange offer, future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; reputational issues; changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business; the arrival or departure of key personnel; the actions of speculators and financial arbitrageurs (such as hedge funds) during and after the exchange offer; changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and other developments or changes affecting us, our industry or our competitors. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. while we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. on december 17, 2014, our board of directors declared the 2015 first quarter dividend of $0.083 per share to be paid on march 3, 2015 to holders of record on january 22, 2015; and on february 27, 2015, our board of directors declared the 2015 second quarter dividend of $0.083 per share to be paid on june 2, 2015, to holders of record on april 9, 2015. although we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock. we anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows available in the united states, impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, shareholder rights plan and delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as our by-laws, and our shareholder rights plan contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. in addition, delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests. 27 | table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a significant portion of our revenue and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. in addition, our outstanding borrowings may be subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using certain financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. foreign exchange risk our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, brazilian real and australian dollar. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenue in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. our financial instruments at december 31, 2014 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined using level 2 inputs. for additional details, see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements note 4. significant accounting policies fair value . the sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency forward-exchange contracts at december 31, 2014 , indicates that if the u.s. dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $ 25 million , and if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $ 21 million . for additional details, see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements note 9b. financial instruments derivative financial instruments . interest rate risk our outstanding debt balances are fixed rate debt. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on our fixed rate debt, interest on our revolving credit facility will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2014 , we had no outstanding principal balance under our revolving credit facility. see notes to consolidated and combined financial statements note 9. financial instruments . 61 | table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors risks related to our international operations . sales and marketing our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products. our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to provide information and to promote and sell our products and services. our technical and veterinary operations specialists, who generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees, provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use. these direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. as a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. as of december 31, 2015 , our sales organization consisted of approximately 2,800 employees. our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. on a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. we also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners. customers we sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork and poultry operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that typically then sell the products to livestock producers. we primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. our two largest customers, both distributors, represented 5 | table of contents approximately 14% and 9%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2015 , and no other customer represented more than 5% of our revenue for the same period. research and development our r&amp;d operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine r&amp;d organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development, registration and regulatory maintenance of our products. we spent $ 364 million in 2015 , $ 396 million in 2014 and $ 399 million in 2013 on r&amp;d. our r&amp;d efforts are comprised of more than 300 programs and reflect our commitment to develop better solutions. we create new insights for preventing and treating disease, and maximizing healthy performance, that result in the development of new platforms of knowledge which become the basis for continuous innovation. leveraging internal discoveries, complemented by diverse external research collaborations, results in the delivery of novel vaccine, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products to help our customers face their toughest challenges. while the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product r&amp;d plays a critical role in our growth strategies, the majority of our r&amp;d investment (including regulatory functions) is focused on product lifecycle innovation. a commitment to continuous innovation, based on customer need, ensures we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. we also create opportunities to optimize solutions through our extensive capabilities in diagnostics and genetics research, ensuring we can help our customers diagnose, prevent and treat a variety of conditions. we prioritize our r&amp;d spending on an annual basis with the goal of aligning our research and business objectives, and do not disaggregate our r&amp;d operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. we make our strategic investments in r&amp;d based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. a centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend. this view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. the allocation of our r&amp;d investment between product lifecycle innovation and new product development, in addition to our ability to leverage the discoveries of our existing r&amp;d and other industries, supports a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable r&amp;d process. prior to the ipo, we entered into an r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer pursuant to which we maintain access to pfizer's proprietary compound library and database to develop new products, subject to certain restrictions. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer: research and development collaboration and license agreement . in addition, we regularly enter into agreements with external parties that enable us to collaborate on research programs or gain access to substrates and technologies. some of our external partnerships involve funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. we are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental expertise for, as well as investment in, such external partnerships. depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models. as of december 31, 2015 , we employed approximately 1,050 employees in our global r&amp;d operations. our r&amp;d headquarters is located in kalamazoo, michigan. we have r&amp;d operations co-located with manufacturing sites in melbourne, australia; louvain-la-neuve, belgium; campinas, brazil; guarulhos, brazil; olot, spain; and lincoln, nebraska, united states. we co-locate r&amp;d operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. it is our intention to exit our r&amp;d operations in guarulhos, brazil and melbourne, australia by the end of 2016. in addition, we maintain r&amp;d operations in sydney, australia; zaventem, belgium; o paulo, brazil; beijing, china; mumbai, india; and durham, north carolina, united states. we lease our mumbai, india facility from pfizer. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer: mumbai, india interim lease agreement . additionally, as a result of the recent acquisition of pharmaq, we maintain r&amp;d operations in thanh binh, vietnam; hong ngu, vietnam; and oslo, norway focused on fish vaccines. each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents. manufacturing and supply chain our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as cmos. we have a global manufacturing network of 28 sites, which utilizes centralized oversight of a system of 17 anchor and 11 satellite manufacturing sites to maximize cost efficiencies. 6 | table of contents our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites: anchor sites satellite sites site location site location catania italy campinas brazil charles city iowa, u.s. eagle grove iowa, u.s. chicago heights illinois, u.s. hsinchu (2) taiwan durham north carolina, u.s. laurinburg (2) north carolina, u.s. guarulhos (1) brazil longmont (2) colorado, u.s. haridwar (2) india medolla italy jilin (3) china salisbury maryland, u.s. kalamazoo michigan, u.s. van buren (2) arkansas, u.s. lincoln nebraska, u.s. wellington new zealand london (4) ontario, canada white hall illinois, u.s. louvain-la-neuve belgium yantai china melbourne australia olot spain overhalla (5) norway san diego california, u.s. suzhou china willow island west virginia, u.s. (1) this site is owned by us and leased back to pfizer, pursuant to an arrangement by which pfizer operates the manufacturing operations at the site for a period of time. we expect pfizer to transfer the site back to us in 2016. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer brazil lease agreements. (2) we are in the process of exiting this site as a result of our operational efficiency initiative and supply network strategy. (3) this site is operated by the china joint venture, jilin zoetis guoyuan animal health company, ltd. (4) in august 2015, zoetis acquired kl products, inc., a leading canadian manufacturer of automation systems for the poultry industry. the systems are manufactured in london, ontario, canada. (5) in november 2015, zoetis acquired pharmaq, the global leader in vaccines and innovation for health products in aquaculture. the vaccines are manufactured in overhalla, norway. in 2015, we exited our manufacturing site in shenzhou, china as part of our operational efficiency program and supply network strategy. we own all of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in melbourne, australia; medolla, italy; van buren, arkansas, united states; and san diego, california, united states, which are leased sites. in addition to our global manufacturing network and our cmos, pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at 11 pfizer sites located in 11 countries pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. included in these 11 pfizer sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, where pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a short period of time. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer master manufacturing and supply agreements. our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of cmos. as of december 31, 2015 , this network was comprised of approximately 200 cmos, including those centrally managed as well as local cmos. we select cmos based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) their access to niche products and technologies; (iii) capacity; and (iv) financial efficiency analyses. our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the cmos we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality. we purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. we utilize logistics service providers as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support. we intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including six sigma and lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. we have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and cmo sites. we are currently conducting a review of our global manufacturing and supply network to improve efficiency and have announced plans to exit or sell certain sites. see operational efficiency program . competition although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. 7 | table of contents our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as merck animal health, the animal health division of merck &amp; co., inc.; merial, the animal health division of sanofi s.a.; elanco, the animal health division of eli lilly and company; bayer animal health, the animal health division of bayer ag; and boehringer ingelheim animal health, the animal health division of boehringer ingelheim gmbh. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. in addition, we compete with hundreds of other producers of animal health products throughout the world. the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. for example, the level of generic competition is higher in europe and certain emerging markets than in the united states. unlike in the human health market, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. the reasons for this include the relatively smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. in addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians. our livestock products tend to experience lower generic competition than our companion animal products for several reasons: livestock producers tend to be loyal to medicines and vaccines that have been demonstrated to be efficacious because medicines and vaccines are a small portion of a livestock producer's total production costs and ineffective medicines and vaccines could result in the loss of animals, causing disproportionate harm to such producer's investment; livestock producers value the technical assistance provided through our veterinary operations' support of our products and field force; and the importance of reliable supply. the importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. as a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity. intellectual property our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. we rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate. our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 4,800 granted patents and 2,000 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with concentration in our major market countries as well as other countries with strong patent systems, such as australia, brazil, canada, europe, japan and the united states. many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our own and pfizer's work, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were at least partially developed by, and are licensed to us by, third parties. patents for individual products extend for varying periods depending on the date of the patent filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line began expiring in the united states in 2015; however, various formulation and use patents extend through to 2024. draxxin is covered by compound and formulation patents in the united states and europe with terms that expire between late 2018 and 2021. the compound patent for the parasiticide selamectin, the active ingredient in revolution, expired during 2014. however, process and formulation patents covering this product expire in 2018 and 2019, respectively. additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement. in order to facilitate the separation and allow pfizer and our operations to continue with minimal interruption, pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we license to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a transitional license to use certain of pfizer's trademarks and we granted pfizer a transitional license to use certain of our trademarks for a period of time following the completion of the ipo. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. we currently maintain more than 10,000 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals. operational efficiency program during 2015, we launched a comprehensive operational efficiency program, which was incremental to the previously announced supply network strategy. these initiatives have focused on reducing complexity in our product portfolios through the elimination of approximately 5,000 product stock keeping units (skus), changing our selling approach in certain markets, reducing our presence in certain countries and planning to sell or exit ten manufacturing sites over the long term. as of december 31, 2015, we entered into an agreement to divest three u.s. manufacturing sites and in january 2016, we announced agreements to sell manufacturing facilities in india and taiwan. we are also continuing to optimize our resource allocation and efficiency by reducing resources associated with non-customer facing activities and operating more efficiently as a result of less internal complexity and more standardization of processes. as part of this initiative, we expect to reduce certain positions through divestitures, normal attrition and involuntary terminations by approximately 2,000 to 2,500, subject to consultations with works councils and unions in certain countries. as of december 31, 2015, approximately 1,200 positions have been eliminated and additional reductions are expected primarily over the next nine to twelve months. 8 | table of contents regulatory the sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. to maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. in the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. united states united states food and drug administration (fda). the regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the united states is the center for veterinary medicine (cvm), housed within the fda. all manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. the fda's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a freedom of information summary. post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the cvm's surveillance and compliance group. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source. united states department of agriculture (usda). the regulatory body in the united states for veterinary vaccines is the usda. the usda's center for veterinary biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. all manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the virus serum toxin act. post-approval monitoring of products is required. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements. environmental protection agency (epa). the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides is the epa. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. outside the united states european union (eu). the european medicines agency (ema) is the centralized regulatory agency of the eu, located in london. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by healthcare companies seeking centralized approval for use in the eu. the agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. the committee for veterinary medicinal products (cvmp) is responsible for scientific and technical review of the submissions for innovative pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals and vaccines. after the cvmp issues a positive opinion on the approvability of a product, the eu commission reviews the opinion and, if they agree with the cvmp, they grant the product market authorization. once granted by the european commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all eu and european economic area-european free trade association states. products can also be registered in the eu via a decentralized route under the supervision of the co-ordination group for mutual recognition and decentralized procedures - veterinary (cmdv). this co-ordination group is composed of one representative per member state from each national regulatory agency, including norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the cmdv reviews submissions of pharmaceuticals and vaccines for authorization of a veterinary product in two or more member states in accordance with the mutual recognition or the decentralized procedure. a series of regulations, directives, guidelines and eu pharmacopeia monographs provide the requirements for product approval in the eu. in general, these requirements are similar to those in the united states, requiring demonstrated evidence of, safety, efficacy, and quality/consistency of manufacturing processes. brazil. the ministry of agriculture, livestock production and supply (mapa) is the regulatory body in brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. mapa's regulatory activities are conducted through the secretary of agricultural defense and its livestock products inspection department. in addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the federal agriculture superintendence. these activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. mapa is one of the most active regulatory agencies in latin america, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as codex alimentarius, world organization for animal health and committee of veterinary medicines for the americas. mapa was also invited to be a latin american representative at meetings of the international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). several normative instructions issued by mapa have set regulatory trends in latin america. australia. the australian pesticides and veterinary medicines authority (apvma) is an australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the australian marketplace. previously each state and territory government had its own system of registration. the apvma assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the apvma's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. if the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the apvma will register the product. as well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the apvma reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job 9 | table of contents users expect and are safe to use. the apvma also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. the review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. in some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being cancelled and the product taken off the market. rest of world. country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. with the exception of the eu, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the fda, usda, eu and other international animal health entities, including the world organization for animal health, codex alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines. global policy and guidance joint fao/who expert committee on food additives. the joint fao/who expert committee on food additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the world health organization (who). they provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. we work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. this in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain. advertising and promotion review. promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. these rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. we conduct a review of promotion materials for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products. food safety inspection service/generally recognized as safe. the fda is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including generally recognized as safe substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. however, although the fda has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the food safety and inspection service, the public health agency in the usda, still retains, under the tenets of the federal meat inspection act and the poultry products inspection act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products. international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). vich is a trilateral (eu-japan-usa) program aimed at harmonizing technical requirements for veterinary product registration. the objectives of the vich are as follows: establish and implement harmonized technical requirements for the registration of veterinary medicinal products in the vich regions, which meet high quality, safety and efficacy standards and minimize the use of test animals and costs of product development. provide a basis for wider international harmonization of registration requirements through the vich outreach forum. monitor and maintain existing vich guidelines, taking particular note of the ich work program and, where necessary, update these vich guidelines. ensure efficient processes for maintaining and monitoring consistent interpretation of data requirements following the implementation of vich guidelines. by means of a constructive dialogue between regulatory authorities and industry, provide technical guidance enabling response to significant emerging global issues and science that impact on regulatory requirements within the vich regions. employees as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately 9,000 employees worldwide, which included approximately 3,900 employees in the united states and approximately 5,100 in other jurisdictions. some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 50 union employees in the united states. environmental, health and safety we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. certain environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third-party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. in addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. in connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2015 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows: 10 | table of contents environmental-related capital expenditures - $1 million; and other environmental-related expenditures - $12 million. however, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. in connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. we have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all. while we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. recent acquisitions on november 9, 2015, we completed a transaction through which we acquired pharmaq, a leading global animal health company specializing in vaccines and innovation for aquaculture. on february 10, 2015, we completed the purchase of certain assets of abbott animal health, a subsidiary of abbott laboratories. abbott animal health is a companion animal health business focused on the veterinary surgical suite. the purchase expands our companion animal product portfolio to include veterinarian solutions for anesthesia, pain management, and the diagnosis of diabetes. for additional information, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 5a. acquisitions, divestitures and certain investments: acquisition of pharmaq and acquisition of abbott animal health . available information the company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. on our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance at zoetis and our board of directors, including as follows: our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; zoetis policies on business conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller); code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; board committees and committee charters; and ways to communicate by email with our directors. we will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our corporate secretary, zoetis inc., 100 campus drive, florham park, new jersey 07932. information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. we will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of these ethics policies and standards affecting our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable sec and nyse rules. we use our website (www.zoetis.com) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure promulgated by the sec. these disclosures are included on our website (www.zoetis.com) in the investors and news &amp; media sections. accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website (www. zoetis.com), in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. the information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, a part of this 2015 annual report, or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our references to the urls for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 11 | table of contents item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information in this 2015 annual report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. we generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, could, expect, intend, project, plan, predict, believe, seek, continue, outlook, may, might, will, should, can have, likely or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events. in particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to our indebtedness, our ability to make interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, our ability to satisfy the covenants contained in our indebtedness, the redemption of the notes, expectations regarding indebtedness, the repurchase of shares, future use of cash and dividend payments, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, r&amp;d costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, interest rates, tax rates, changes in tax regimes and laws, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, our agreements with pfizer, the expected timing and content of regulatory actions, government regulation and financial results. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and are potentially inaccurate assumptions. however, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. you should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business and industry restrictions and bans on the use of antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent. the issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterial resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, continue to be the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. in some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). these restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. our total revenue attributable to antibacterials for livestock was approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended december 31, 2015 . for example, in december 2013, the fda announced final guidance establishing procedures for the voluntary phase out in the united states over a three-year period of the use of medically important antibacterials in animal feed for growth promotion in food production animals (medically important antibacterials include classes that are prescribed in animal and human health). the guidance provides for continued use of antibacterials in food producing animals for treatment, control and under certain circumstances for prevention of disease, all under the supervision of a veterinarian. the fda indicated that they took this action to help preserve the efficacy of medically important antibacterials to treat infections in humans. zoetis supports the fda's efforts to voluntarily phase-out growth promotion indications for medically important antibiotics in food producing animals and will comply with procedures outlined in the december 2013 fda guidance. in addition, in october 2014, the french parliament passed a law that prohibits rebates and discounts on antibiotics and requires the reporting of antibiotics sold to and agreements entered into with certain animal healthcare providers (including veterinarians, veterinary schools, pharmacists and students). the parliament indicated that the law is in response to a government initiative aimed at fighting antimicrobial resistance in animals and reducing the use of certain categories of antibiotics by 25% (compared to 2013) by december 31, 2016. we cannot predict whether antibacterial resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations or public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products could cause a decline in the sales of such products. our livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. if the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. for example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition, health-related or other concerns. any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 12 | table of contents increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products. companies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. if livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, new or more stringent regulations could, directly or indirectly, impact the use of one or more of our products. more stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products. an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products. sales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. in addition, outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. in recent years, outbreaks of various diseases, including avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as bse or mad cow disease) or porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (otherwise known as pedv), have impacted the animal health business. for example, incidences of bse in the united states and brazil in 2012 led certain countries to implement additional inspections of, or suspend the importation of, u.s. and brazilian beef. similarly, outbreaks of highly pathogenic h5 avian flu affected (infected or exposed) 48 million birds in the united states in 2014 and 2015, and significantly impacted the egg and turkey industry. the discovery of additional cases of any of these, or new, diseases may result in additional restrictions on animal proteins, reduced herd sizes, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. consolidation of our customers could negatively affect the pricing of our products. veterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. in recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. in addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, have seen recent consolidation in their industries. furthermore, we have seen the expansion of larger cross-border corporate customers and an increase in the consolidation of buying groups (cooperatives of veterinary practices that leverage volume to pursue discounts from manufacturers). the pace of customer consolidation and structure of markets varies greatly across geographies. if these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. the resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business may be negatively affected by weather conditions and the availability of natural resources. the animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in particular regions are affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. as a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. in addition, veterinary hospitals and practitioners depend on visits from and access to animals under their care. veterinarians' patient volume and ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience prolonged snow, ice or other weather conditions, particularly in regions not accustomed to sustained inclement weather. furthermore, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. in the event of adverse weather conditions or a shortage of fresh water, veterinarians or livestock producers may purchase less of our products. for example, the widespread drought that impacted the united states in 2011, 2012 and in some regions in 2013 was considered the worst in many years, resulting in a reduction in the total cow herd in 2013. droughts such as this one can lead to a decrease in harvested corn and higher corn prices, which may impact the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock sizes that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. in addition, droughts can lead to reduced availability of grazing pastures, forcing cattle producers to cull their herds. fewer heads of cattle could result in reduced demand for our products. a prolonged drought could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions. macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. certain of our customers and suppliers could be affected directly by an economic downturn and could face credit issues or cash flow problems that could give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. for example, the economic downturns experienced in many markets across the globe have had an impact on certain of our customers and, as a result, on our operating results in those affected markets. if one or more of our large customers, including distributors, discontinue their relationship with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. furthermore, our exposure to credit and collectability risk is higher in certain international markets and our ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit and collectability risk, there can be no assurances such procedures will effectively limit such risk and avoid losses. 13 | table of contents our business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income. feed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. these shifts could result in a decrease in sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership. changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products. in most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. companion animal owners increasingly have the option to purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. this trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years. companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on internet-based animal health information. because we market our companion animal prescription products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. legislation has also been proposed in the united states, and may be proposed in the united states or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. for example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the american veterinary medical association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice. over time, these and other competitive conditions may increase our reliance on internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. we may be unable to sustain our current margins and we may not be adequately prepared or able to distribute our products if an increased portion of our sales is through these channels. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the animal health industry is highly competitive. the animal health industry is highly competitive. we believe many of our competitors are conducting r&amp;d activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. our competitors include the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies and specialty animal health businesses. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. these competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. as a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. in addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines and vaccines industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. to the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us. generic products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products. we face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. we depend on patents and data exclusivity periods to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. our patent protection for these products extends for varying periods in accordance with the dates of filing or grant and the legal life of patents in countries in which patents are granted. the protection afforded by our patents, which varies from country to country, is limited by the following in the applicable country: the scope and applicable terms of our patents and the availability and enforcement of legal remedies. as a result, we may face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products. generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of launching at risk before our patent rights expire, and their pricing, and generic products are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. in addition, private label products may compete with our products. for example, in july and december 2014, several companies launched generic versions of our rimadyl chewable product. as a result, sales of our rimadyl chewable product decreased by approximately 6% in 2015. if animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic or private label products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we estimate that approximately 80% of our revenue in 2014 was derived from products that are either unpatented (i.e., never patented or off-patent) or covered by our patents that, while providing a competitive advantage, may not provide market exclusivity. over the next several years, several of our products' patents will expire. 14 | table of contents we may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses. we pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. we may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. in addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. we may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. we also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. we may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient. these effects could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully implement our business strategies or achieve expected gross margin improvements. we are pursuing, and will continue to pursue, strategic initiatives that management considers critical to our long-term success, including, but not limited to, increasing sales in emerging markets, operational revenue growth through new product development and value-added product lifecycle innovation; improving operational efficiency through manufacturing efficiency improvement and other programs; using cash flow from operations to service or reduce debt; and expanding our complementary products and services. we also have acquired or partnered with a number of smaller animal health businesses, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. there are significant risks involved with the execution of these initiatives, including significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. accordingly, we cannot predict whether we will succeed in implementing these strategic initiatives. it could take several years to realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, if any benefits are achieved at all. we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements on our products and technologies, including those acquired and those developed internally. additionally, our business strategy may change from time to time, which could delay our ability to implement initiatives that we believe are important to our business. our business could be affected adversely by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages. some of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the united states. as a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenue and net income. we may also experience difficulty or delays in implementing changes to our workforce in certain markets. in addition, labor problems at our suppliers or cmos could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. loss of our executive officers could disrupt our operations. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers. our executive officers are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. in addition, we generally do not enter into employment agreements with our executive officers. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officer positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. the loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs and not achieve anticipated benefits and savings from our recently announced comprehensive operational efficiency initiative. on may 5, 2015, we announced an initiative to simplify our operations, improve our efficiency and cost structure, and better allocate our resources to key growth opportunities in animal health. as part of the initiative, we have reduced staff and plan to close or divest certain facilities. we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits and savings from our efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, the complexity inherent in unwinding our current structure, and delays or unexpected costs, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. following the completion of our program, we will execute our business initiatives with fewer staff and, in some instances, existing employees will be transitioning to new key roles. we must also attract, retain and motivate key employees who are critical to our business. if we are unable to effectively execute with fewer staff members, transition key roles and/or attract, retain and motivate key employees, it may adversely impact our business. we may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. as of december 31, 2015, we had goodwill of $ 1,455 million and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $ 1,190 million . identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents and in-process r&amp;d. determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. the timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our consolidated statements of 15 | table of contents income and write-downs recorded in our consolidated balance sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our historical combined financial data is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical combined financial data for periods prior to the ipo (the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2012, and the period ended january 31, 2013) included in this 2015 annual report does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as an independent company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. this is primarily the result of the following factors: our historical combined financial data does not reflect the separation; our historical combined financial data reflects expense allocations for certain support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within pfizer, such as expenses for business technology, facilities, legal, finance, human resources, business development, public affairs and procurement, as well as certain manufacturing and supply costs incurred by manufacturing sites that are shared with other pfizer business units that may be higher or lower than the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred, or will incur, as an independent company; our cost of debt and our capital structure is different from that reflected in our historical combined financial statements; significant increases may occur in our cost structure as a result of our being an independent public company, including costs related to public company reporting, investor relations and compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (sarbanes-oxley act); and loss of economies of scale as a result of our no longer being a part of pfizer. our financial condition and future results of operations will be materially different from amounts reflected in our historical combined financial statements included in this 2015 annual report for the periods prior to the ipo. as a result of the separation, it may be difficult for investors to compare our future results to historical results or to evaluate our relative performance or trends in our business. risks related to research and development our r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle innovations. our future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to r&amp;d, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties. we may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. in addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenue that are consistent with our expectations. the animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. furthermore, the timing and cost of our r&amp;d may increase, and our r&amp;d may become less predictable. for example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to research, develop and register products. products in the animal health industry are sometimes derived from molecules and compounds discovered or developed as part of human health research. in addition to the r&amp;d collaboration and license agreement with pfizer, we expect to enter into other collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties to provide us with access to compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. if we are unable to access human health-generated molecules and compounds to conduct r&amp;d on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited. advances in veterinary medical practices and animal health technologies could negatively affect the market for our products. the market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including green or holistic health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. in addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our r&amp;d relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations. as an animal health medicines and vaccines business, the evaluation of our existing and new products in animals is required to register our products. animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. to the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our r&amp;d, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. 16 | table of contents risks related to manufacturing manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs. in order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship our products in sufficient quantities. on december 31, 2015, we had a global manufacturing network consisting of 28 manufacturing sites located in 12 countries. as part of our operational efficiency program, we have subsequently exited, or are in the process of exiting, certain of these sites. for more information, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations recent developments . in addition, 11 pfizer sites located in 11 countries manufacture certain of our products for us. included in these pfizer sites is our facility in guarulhos, brazil, where pfizer will continue its manufacturing operations for a short period of time. these pfizer sites consist of sites operated by pfizer that, immediately prior to the separation, predominantly manufactured human health products. we also employ a network of approximately 200 cmos. many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. minor deviations in our manufacturing or logistical processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. in addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers, including logistical service providers, to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines; construction delays; equipment malfunctions; shortages of materials; labor problems; natural disasters; power outages; criminal and terrorist activities; changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. these interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for example, our manufacturing site in medolla, italy was damaged in an earthquake in may 2012, which resulted in production interruptions at that site. in addition, we have experienced challenges in manufacturing apoquel that have impacted our ability to meet customer demand. as a result, we have had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians can purchase and have delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. the unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. in addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. as part of our operational efficiency program, our manufacturing network is undergoing significant changes. we may be unable to achieve the planned cost-savings from these changes. in addition, we may experience delays and disruptions in our supply network as a result of these activities. we rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services and are subject to increased labor and material costs. the materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. in addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products. we may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole source of certain materials necessary for production of our products. we may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. risks related to legal matters and regulation we may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. these matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of united states and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, 17 | table of contents breach of contract and tort. in addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. for example, in the united states, attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. if such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. an adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. there may be increased risk of product liability if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. for example, ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is abused by humans as a hallucinogen. furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. if we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products or of stolen, diverted or relabeled products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products that do not meet the exacting standards of our development, manufacturing and distribution processes. counterfeit or illegally compounded medicines pose a significant risk to animal health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents. counterfeit or illegally compounded products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening to animals. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or illegally compounded products which are alleged to be equivalent and/or which are sold under our brand name. in addition, products stolen or unlawfully diverted from inventory, warehouses, plants or while in transit, which are not properly stored or which have an expired shelf life and which have been repackaged or relabeled and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact animal health and safety, our reputation and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of vaccines and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, illegally compounding or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. animal health products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality, or efficacy concerns, which may harm our reputation. unanticipated safety, quality, or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to animal health products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims. for example, as a result of safety concerns related to our product, pregsure bvd, in 2010, we voluntarily suspended sales of the product and withdrew the marketing authorization in the eu and, in 2011, we suspended sales and withdrew the marketing authorization for the product in new zealand. also, in may 2013, we were advised that the european commission started a procedure regarding the eu marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv, a vaccine against porcine circovirus type 2 in swine. the initiation of the procedure followed a recall of two batches of suvaxyn pcv as a result of higher than expected adverse reactions, reported mainly in spain. in june 2013, we completed a root cause investigation of the higher than expected adverse reactions in these two batches, and subsequently submitted to the ema a proposed variation to describe specific adjustments to the manufacturing process to help minimize the risk of future reactive batches. in october 2013, the ema's committee on medicinal products for veterinary use adopted a positive opinion as to the proposed variation and concurrently adopted an opinion concluding that no action was required at that time with regard to the eu marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv. both opinions were transmitted to the european commission according to the applicable procedure and the commission officially advised us in january 2014 that it had adopted those positive opinions and concluded the procedure begun in may 2013 by maintaining the marketing authorization for suvaxyn pcv in effect. regulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product's sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results. in addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, qualify or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. these concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. our business is subject to substantial regulation. as a global company, we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of our products. in addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory agencies. an inspection may report conditions or practices that indicate possible violations of regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with these regulatory requirements, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in, among other things, inspection observation notices, warning letters or similar regulatory correspondence, fines, a partial or total shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while an alleged violation is remediated, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims. any one of these consequences could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 18 | table of contents in addition, we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. in connection with the separation, we will likely change the location of the manufacture of certain of our products and, because of these changes, may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. furthermore, we cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, or changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the united states of income earned outside the united states. changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, regulatory agencies have recently increased their focus on the potential for vaccines to induce immunity anomalies. absent a clear understanding of these anomalies, regulatory scrutiny of vaccines may become stricter. additional scrutiny or regulation of our vaccine products could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under cercla or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. see item 1. business environmental, health and safety . the costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. a failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. risks related to our international operations a significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business. our international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: volatility in the international financial markets; compliance with governmental controls; difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; parallel trade in our products (importation of our products from european union countries where our products are sold at lower prices into european union countries where the products are sold at higher prices); compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the fcpa and similar non-u.s. laws and regulations; compliance with foreign labor laws; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements; changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers, including the imposition of limits on our profitability (e.g., the venezuelan law on fair pricing); political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts; 19 | table of contents trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by the ofac and the european union, in relation to our products or the products of farmers and other customers (e.g., restrictions on the importation of agricultural products from the european union to russia); changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs; imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions; costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk; and additional limitations on transferring personal information between countries or other restrictions on the processing of personal information. in addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. a failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. in addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized importation or unauthorized re-importation of our products between jurisdictions and may also result in the imposition of antidumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. foreign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. we conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. in 2015, we generated approximately 47% of our revenue in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, brazilian real and canadian dollar. we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenue. in addition, because our financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. for example, on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 venezuelan bolivars per u.s. dollar. we immediately incurred a foreign currency loss of $9 million on the devaluation as a result of remeasuring the local assets and liabilities. our venezuelan subsidiary's functional currency is the u.s. dollar because of the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. in the first quarter of 2014, the venezuelan government expanded its exchange mechanisms, resulting in three official rates of exchange for the venezuelan bolivar. on february 10, 2015, the venezuelan government announced that they would continue to operate with a three-tier exchange rate system. in addition, they announced that the primary rate of 6.3 bolivars to the u.s. dollar would remain in place for imports that are deemed essential. a new free-floating rate (simadi) replaced the existing third-tier rate (sicad ii). as of december 31, 2015, the venezuelan bolivar to u.s. dollar exchange rates were the cencoex official rate of 6.3; the sicad i rate of 13.5; and the simadi rate of 199. through the fourth quarter of 2015, we used the cencoex official rate of 6.3 to report our venezuela financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in the fourth quarter of 2015, upon evaluation of evolving economic conditions in venezuela and our expectation of venezuela's responses to changes in its economy, continued volatility, and the fact that we have not received any approved payments from venezuela for transactions at the cencoex official rate of 6.3 per u.s. dollar in 2015, we determined that our outstanding venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets are no longer expected to be settled at the cencoex official rate of 6.3, but rather at the simadi rate of 199. on november 30, 2015, we recorded a net remeasurement loss of $89 million on bolivar-denominated net monetary assets, primarily related to cash deposits in venezuela, using the simadi rate of 199 bolivars to the u.s. dollar, and this rate will be used prospectively. we believe this best represents the estimate of the u.s. dollar amount that will ultimately be collected. additionally, the company recorded a lower of cost or market adjustment to inventory of $4 million, and asset impairment charges of $3 million. on february 17, 2016, the venezuela government made an announcement that the three-tier exchange rate system existing in the country has changed to a dual system (official rate and simadi rate). additionally, the official rate was devalued from 6.3 to 10 venezuelan bolivars per u.s. dollar. we also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. while we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or be unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. we currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including china, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets. we have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets. failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 20 | table of contents some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. for example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. in addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. for example, in the past, our revenue in certain emerging markets in latin america have been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations. for all these and other reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. risks related to tax matters the company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or foreign tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. the multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. for example, the european commission opened formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in certain european countries, including belgium, comply with european union rules on state aid. in the case of belgium, the european commission concluded on january 11, 2016, that the excess profits ruling violates the european union's state aid rules. the impact of this conclusion will have a material impact on our effective tax rate in 2016. in addition, on january 28, 2016, the european union presented an anti-tax-avoidance directive designed to provide uniform implementation of base erosion and profits shifting measures and minimum standards across member states. if enacted, this proposed directive could have an impact on our effective tax rate. in addition, our effective tax rate is subject to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. the company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if the company's effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or other material foreign jurisdictions, or if the ultimate determination of the company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the company's operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property the actual or purported intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business. a third party may sue us or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. if we do not prevail in this type of dispute, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future. the costs of defending an intellectual property claim could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such claims. the intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. we cannot be certain that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not obtain rights to intellectual property that may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable or we believe we would be otherwise able to develop a more commercially successful product, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. if our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret, data protection, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. for example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. the validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to 21 | table of contents which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, patent law reform in the united states and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights, or make such enforcement financially unattractive. for instance, u.s. court decisions in the last three years have led to interim u.s. patent and trademark office guidelines regarding inventions in the field of products isolated from nature and diagnostic methods which may influence future patenting strategy in these areas. a similar court decision in australia was issued recently with regard to the patentability of nucleic acids. such reforms could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property and/or limit our ability to patent our products in these jurisdictions. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. likewise, in the united states and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or re-label a product. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. many of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. the misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states, may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. in the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, or the cost of enforcing our intellectual property may outweigh the value of doing so; either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. risks related to information technology we depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems to manage our operations, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. system failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our customers, or delay our financial reporting. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we depend on third parties and applications on virtualized (cloud) infrastructure to operate and support our information systems. these third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. failure by these providers to adequately support our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in connection with the ipo and the separation, we have substantially changed a number of our business processes, including our financial reporting and supply chain processes. in order to support the new business processes under the terms of our transitional services agreement with pfizer, we have made significant configuration and data changes within some of our information technology systems. if our information and processes are not sufficient to support our business and financial reporting functions, or if we fail to properly implement our new business processes, our financial reporting may be delayed or inaccurate and our operations may be adversely affected and, as a result, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, we are implementing new business systems to support our operations, including an enterprise resource planning (erp) system to better integrate our manufacturing, financial, commercial and business operations. there is risk associated with ensuring that the milestones, timelines and budget associated with these new systems stay on track. transitioning to new systems, integrating new systems into current systems or any disruptions or malfunctions (including from circumstances beyond our control) affecting our information systems could cause critical information upon which we rely to be delayed, unreliable, corrupted, insufficient or inaccessible. any of these potential issues, individually or in aggregation, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. assuming we are able to implement these systems successfully, all information systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if our information systems were to fail or be breached, such failure or breach could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised. we may experience difficulties with the implementation of our enterprise resource planning system, which could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are engaged in a multi-year implementation of an erp system. the erp system is designed to accurately maintain our books and records and provide information important to the operation of our business to our management team. the implementation of the erp will require significant 22 | table of contents investment of human and financial resources. in implementing the erp system, we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties. while we have invested significant resources in planning, project management and training, additional and significant implementation issues may arise. for example, although the u.s. implementation of our erp system has been successful from a systems and controls point of view, due to the large number of customers directly impacted by our change of systems, we have experienced challenges with certain of our customers experiencing a disruption in their service. any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the erp system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship product, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites. in many markets around the world, such as the united states and brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. the operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone service or power outages; failures of the information systems that support our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation. we may be unable to adequately protect our information technology systems from cyber-attacks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and subject us to significant financial and legal exposure. our reputation as a global leader in animal health and our reliance on complex information systems make us inherently vulnerable to malicious cyber intrusion and attack. cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. cyber-attacks could include wrongful conduct by hostile foreign governments, industrial espionage, the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service, and other means to threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. a successful cyber-attack could cause serious negative consequences for our company, including the disruption of operations, the misappropriation of confidential business information and trade secrets, and the disclosure of corporate strategic plans. like other global companies, we have experienced threats to our data and information technology systems. to date, those threats have not had a material impact on our business operations or financial condition. however, although we devote resources to protect our information technology systems, we expect cyber-attacks to continue, and there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent information security breaches that would result in business, legal or reputational harm to us, or would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our customers' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws. the protection of customer, employee and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, our customers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws could result in lost sales, remediation costs, legal liability including severe penalties, regulatory action and reputational harm. despite our considerable efforts and investments in technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. in addition, the payment card industry (pci) is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in pci's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with pci security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. risks related to our indebtedness we have substantial indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $4.9 billion of total unsecured indebtedness outstanding. in addition, we have entered into an agreement for a five-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future. we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry; 23 | table of contents placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; impacting our effective tax rate; and increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. for example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with affiliates and incur priority indebtedness. our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including certain international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock. we may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes. upon the occurrence of a change of control of us and a downgrade below investment grade by moody's investor services, inc. and standard &amp; poor's rating services, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. we did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the pfizer-owned notes and we paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to pfizer prior to the completion of the ipo. as a result of these and other factors, we may not have sufficient funds available to finance a change of control offer. our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes. the credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs. risks related to our relationship with pfizer certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with pfizer. certain of our directors are employed by pfizer or may own pfizer common stock, options to purchase pfizer common stock or other pfizer equity awards. certain of these holdings may be individually significant to these directors as compared with such director's total assets. these directors' positions at pfizer and the ownership of any pfizer equity or equity awards may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for pfizer than for us. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. these restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 24 | table of contents 3.250% senior notes due 2023. see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer: tax matters agreement. pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products. under the patent and know-how license agreement (pfizer as licensor) (the patent and know-how license agreement), pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. if we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. in addition, in circumstances where pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or, in limited instances, subject to pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. these limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time-consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. for a summary description of the terms of the patent and know-how license (pfizer as licensor), see item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence relationship with pfizer: intellectual property license agreements. we are dependent on pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. under the patent and know-how license agreement, pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that pfizer licenses to us. in the animal health field, pfizer has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such licensed patents, and in the human health field, subject to certain exceptions, pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents. if pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under this agreement, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. we have incurred and will continue to incur significant charges in connection with the separation and incremental costs as an independent public company. prior to the separation, pfizer performed or supported many important corporate functions for our company. our combined financial statements reflect charges for these services on an allocation basis. following the separation, many of these services are governed by our transitional services agreement with pfizer. under the transitional services agreement we are able to use these pfizer services for a fixed term established on a service-by-service basis. however, we generally have the right to terminate a service earlier if we give notice to pfizer. partial reduction in the provision of any service requires pfizer's consent. in addition, either party is able to terminate the agreement due to a material breach of the other party, upon prior written notice, subject to limited cure periods. we pay pfizer mutually agreed-upon fees for these services, based on pfizer's costs of providing the services. during the two years following the ipo, the markup for these services was 0% and, for the remainder of the term of the agreement, pfizer may introduce a markup of 7%. for the services that pfizer continues to provide to zoetis under this agreement, a 7% markup applied for 2015 and will apply for the remainder of 2016. since our transitional services agreement was negotiated in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship, the terms of the agreement, including the fees charged for the services, may be higher or lower than those that would be agreed to by parties bargaining at arm's length for similar services and may be higher or lower than the costs reflected in the allocations in our historical financial statements. third-party costs are passed through to us at pfizer's or its affiliates' cost. in addition, while these services are being provided to us by pfizer, our operational flexibility to modify or implement changes with respect to such services or the amounts we pay for them is limited. we may not be able to replace these services or enter into appropriate third-party agreements on terms and conditions, including cost, comparable to those that we receive from pfizer under our transitional services agreement. additionally, after the agreement terminates, we may be unable to sustain the services at the same levels or obtain the same benefits as when we were receiving such services and benefits from pfizer. when we begin to operate these functions separately, if we do not have our own adequate systems and business functions in place, or are unable to obtain them from other providers, we may not be able to operate our business effectively or at comparable costs, and our profitability may decline. if there is a later determination that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986 (the code). completion by pfizer of the exchange offer was conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of pfizer or us after the exchange offer. if the exchange offer or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement. 25 | table of contents risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment in zoetis common stock as a result. our common stock has a limited trading history and there may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our common stock as a result of many factors. from our ipo through december 31, 2015, the sales price of our common stock as reported by the nyse has ranged from a low sales price of $28.14 on april 15, 2014 to a high sales price of $55.38 on june 25, 2015. some factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section and in our 2015 annual report, are: our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; our or our competitors' press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; changes in our investor base; failures to meet external expectations or management guidance; fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; reputational issues; changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business; the arrival or departure of key personnel; the actions of speculators and financial arbitrageurs (such as hedge funds); changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and other developments or changes affecting us, our industry or our competitors. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. on december 16, 2015, our board of directors declared the 2016 first quarter dividend of $0.095 per share to be paid on march 1, 2016, to holders of record on january 21, 2016; and on february 19, 2016, our board of directors declared the 2016 second quarter dividend of $0.095 per share to be paid on june 1, 2016, to holders of record on april 7, 2016. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock. we anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows available in the united states, impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, and delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and our amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as our by-laws, contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. in addition, delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests. 26 | table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a significant portion of our revenue and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. in addition, our outstanding borrowings may be subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using certain financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. foreign exchange risk our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, brazilian real and australian dollar. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenue in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. our financial instruments at december 31, 2015 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined using level 2 inputs. for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 4. significant accounting policies: fair value . the sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency forward-exchange contracts at december 31, 2015 , indicates that if the u.s. dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $ 23 million , and if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $ 30 million . for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 10b. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments . interest rate risk our outstanding debt balances are fixed rate debt. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on our fixed rate debt, interest on our revolving credit facility will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2015 , we had no outstanding principal balance under our revolving credit facility. see notes to consolidated financial statements note 10. financial instruments . 57 | table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors risks related to our international operations . sales and marketing our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products. our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to provide information and to promote and sell our products and services. our technical and veterinary operations specialists, who generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees, provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use. these direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. as a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. as of december 31, 2016 , our sales organization consisted of approximately 2,800 employees. our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. on a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. we also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners. customers we sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork and poultry operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that typically then sell the products to livestock producers. we 6 | table of contents primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 13% and 7%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2016 , and no other customer represented more than 4% of our revenue for the same period. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine r&amp;d organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development, registration and regulatory maintenance of our products. we incurred r&amp;d expense of $ 376 million in 2016 , $ 364 million in 2015 and $ 396 million in 2014 . our r&amp;d efforts are comprised of more than 200 programs and reflect our commitment to develop better solutions. we create new insights for preventing and treating disease, and maximizing healthy performance, that result in the development of new platforms of knowledge which become the basis for continuous innovation. leveraging internal discoveries, complemented by diverse external research collaborations, results in the delivery of novel vaccine, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products to help our customers face their toughest challenges. while the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product r&amp;d plays a critical role in our growth strategies, a significant share of our r&amp;d investment (including regulatory functions) is focused on product lifecycle innovation. a commitment to continuous innovation, based on customer need, ensures we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. we also create opportunities to optimize solutions through our extensive capabilities in diagnostics and genetics research, ensuring we can help our customers diagnose, predict, prevent and treat a variety of conditions. we prioritize our r&amp;d spending on an annual basis with the goal of aligning our research and business objectives, and do not disaggregate our r&amp;d operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. we make our strategic investments in r&amp;d based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. a centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend. this view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. the allocation of our r&amp;d investment between product lifecycle innovation and new product development, in addition to our ability to leverage the discoveries of our existing r&amp;d and other industries, supports a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable r&amp;d process. we regularly enter into agreements with external parties that enable us to collaborate on research programs or gain access to substrates and technologies. some of our external partnerships involve funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. we are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental expertise for, as well as investment in, such external partnerships. depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models. as of december 31, 2016 , we employed approximately 1,000 employees in our global r&amp;d operations. our r&amp;d headquarters is located in kalamazoo, michigan. we have r&amp;d operations co-located with manufacturing sites in louvain-la-neuve, belgium; campinas, brazil; olot, spain; kalamazoo, michigan; and lincoln, nebraska, united states. we co-locate r&amp;d operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. in addition, we maintain r&amp;d operations in sydney, australia; zaventem, belgium; o paulo, brazil; beijing, china; navi mumbai, india; and durham, north carolina, united states. since the acquisition of pharmaq in 2015, we maintain r&amp;d operations in thanh binh, vietnam; hong ngu, vietnam; and oslo, norway; and for recently acquired scandinavian micro biodevices we operate a facility in farum, denmark. each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents. manufacturing and supply chain our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as cmos. we have a global manufacturing network of 25 sites. 7 | table of contents our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites: site location site location campinas brazil medolla italy catania italy melbourne australia charles city iowa, u.s. olot spain chicago heights illinois, u.s. oslo norway durham north carolina, u.s. overhalla norway eagle grove iowa, u.s. salisbury maryland, u.s. farum (a) denmark san diego california, u.s. guarulhos brazil suzhou china jilin (b) china wellington new zealand kalamazoo michigan, u.s. white hall illinois, u.s. lincoln nebraska, u.s. willow island west virginia, u.s. london ontario, canada yantai china louvain-la-neuve belgium (a) in august 2016, zoetis acquired a veterinary diagnostics business in denmark. (b) this site is operated by our china joint venture, jilin zoetis guoyuan animal health company, ltd. we own all of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in medolla (italy), melbourne (australia) and san diego, california (u.s), which are leased sites. in addition to our global manufacturing network and our cmos, pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at five pfizer sites pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of cmos. as of december 31, 2016 , this network was comprised of approximately 200 cmos, including those centrally managed as well as local cmos. we select cmos based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) their access to niche products and technologies; (iii) capacity; and (iv) financial efficiency analyses. our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the cmos we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality. we purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. we utilize logistics service providers as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support. we intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including six sigma and lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. we have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and cmo sites. we recently conducted a review of our global manufacturing and supply network to improve efficiency and have announced plans to exit or sell certain sites. over the last two years, we exited our manufacturing sites in haridwar (india), hsinchu (taiwan), laurinburg, north carolina (u.s), longmont, colorado (u.s.), shenzhou (china) and van buren, arkansas (u.s.) as part of our operational efficiency program and supply network strategy. see operational efficiency program and supply network strategy . competition although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as boehringer ingelheim vetmedica inc., the animal health division of boehringer ingelheim gmbh, which acquired merial, former animal health division of sanofi s.a., in january 2017; merck animal health, the animal health division of merck &amp; co., inc.; elanco, the animal health division of eli lilly and company; and bayer animal health, the animal health division of bayer ag. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. in addition, we compete with hundreds of other producers of animal health products throughout the world. the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. for example, the level of generic competition is higher in europe and certain emerging markets than in the united states. unlike in the human health market, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. the reasons for this include the relatively smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. in addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians. the importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. as a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity. 8 | table of contents intellectual property our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. we rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate. our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 4,800 granted patents and 1,700 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with a focus on our major markets, including australia, brazil, canada, china, europe, japan and the united states, as well as other countries with strong patent systems. many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our in-house research and development, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were wholly or partially developed by third parties and are licensed to zoetis. patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. the active ingredient of draxxin, tulathromycin, is covered by both compound and formulation patents in the united states, europe, canada, australia and other key markets, with terms that expire between may 2019 and january 2021 in the united states, between november 2018 and november 2020 in europe, and between may 2018 and november 2020 in canada and australia. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line (excede) began expiring in the united states in 2015. however, various formulation and use patents relevant to the product line extend through to 2024. the compound patent for the selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticide revolution, expired in 2014. again, we have process and formulation patents covering this product which expire in important markets in 2018 and 2019, respectively. the patent for the active ingredient of convenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between november 2022 and january 2024. the patent relating to the formulation of orbeseal expires in december 2017. zoetis typically enforces all of its patents. additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement. as a result of our separation from pfizer, where necessary pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we license to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a perpetual license to use certain of pfizer's product name trademarks. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. we currently maintain more than 10,000 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals. operational efficiency program and supply network strategy during 2015, we launched a comprehensive operational efficiency program, which was incremental to the supply network strategy that was previously announced. these initiatives have focused on reducing complexity in our product portfolios, changing our selling approach in certain markets and reducing our presence in certain countries, and planning to sell or exit 10 manufacturing sites over the long term. as of december 31, 2016, we divested or exited three u.s. manufacturing sites, two international manufacturing sites, and our 55 percent ownership share of a taiwan joint venture, inclusive of its related manufacturing site. we are also continuing to optimize our resource allocation and efficiency by reducing resources associated with non-customer facing activities and operating more efficiently as a result of less internal complexity and more standardization of processes. as part of this initiative, we expect to reduce certain positions through divestitures, normal attrition and involuntary terminations by approximately 2,000 to 2,500, subject to consultations with works councils and unions in certain countries. as of december 31, 2016, approximately 1,800 positions have been eliminated and additional reductions are expected primarily over the next six months. regulatory the sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. to maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. in the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. united states united states food and drug administration (fda). the regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the united states is the center for veterinary medicine (cvm), housed within the fda. all manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. the fda's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a freedom of information summary. post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the cvm's surveillance and compliance group. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source. 9 | table of contents united states department of agriculture (usda). the regulatory body in the united states for veterinary vaccines is the usda. the usda's center for veterinary biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. all manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the virus serum toxin act. post-approval monitoring of products is required. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements. environmental protection agency (epa). the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides is the epa. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. outside the united states european union (eu). the european medicines agency (ema) is the centralized regulatory agency of the eu, located in london. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by healthcare companies seeking centralized approval for use in the eu. the agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. the committee for veterinary medicinal products (cvmp) is responsible for scientific and technical review of the submissions for innovative pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals and vaccines. after the cvmp issues a positive opinion on the approvability of a product, the eu commission reviews the opinion and, if they agree with the cvmp, they grant the product market authorization. once granted by the european commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all eu and european economic area-european free trade association states. products can also be registered in the eu via a decentralized route under the supervision of the co-ordination group for mutual recognition and decentralized procedures - veterinary (cmdv). this co-ordination group is composed of one representative per member state from each national regulatory agency, including norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the cmdv reviews submissions of pharmaceuticals and vaccines for authorization of a veterinary product in two or more member states in accordance with the mutual recognition or the decentralized procedure. a series of regulations, directives, guidelines and eu pharmacopeia monographs provide the requirements for product approval in the eu. in general, these requirements are similar to those in the united states, requiring demonstrated evidence of, safety, efficacy, and quality/consistency of manufacturing processes. brazil. the ministry of agriculture, livestock production and supply (mapa) is the regulatory body in brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. mapa's regulatory activities are conducted through the secretary of agricultural defense and its livestock products inspection department. in addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the federal agriculture superintendence. these activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. mapa is one of the most active regulatory agencies in latin america, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as codex alimentarius, world organization for animal health and committee of veterinary medicines for the americas. mapa was also invited to be a latin american representative at meetings of the international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). several normative instructions issued by mapa have set regulatory trends in latin america. australia. the australian pesticides and veterinary medicines authority (apvma) is an australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the australian marketplace. previously each state and territory government had its own system of registration. the apvma assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the apvma's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. if the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the apvma will register the product. as well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the apvma reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job users expect and are safe to use. the apvma also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. the review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. in some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being canceled and the product taken off the market. rest of world. country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. with the exception of the eu, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the fda, usda, eu and other international animal health entities, including the world organization for animal health, codex alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines. global policy and guidance joint fao/who expert committee on food additives. the joint fao/who expert committee on food additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the world health organization (who). they provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. we work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. this in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain. 10 | table of contents advertising and promotion review. promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. these rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. we conduct a review of promotion materials for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products. food safety inspection service/generally recognized as safe. the fda is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including generally recognized as safe substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. however, although the fda has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the food safety and inspection service, the public health agency in the usda, still retains, under the tenets of the federal meat inspection act and the poultry products inspection act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products. international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). vich is a trilateral (eu-japan-usa) program aimed at harmonizing technical requirements for veterinary product registration. the objectives of the vich are as follows: establish and implement harmonized technical requirements for the registration of veterinary medicinal products in the vich regions, which meet high quality, safety and efficacy standards and minimize the use of test animals and costs of product development. provide a basis for wider international harmonization of registration requirements through the vich outreach forum. monitor and maintain existing vich guidelines, taking particular note of the ich work program and, where necessary, update these vich guidelines. ensure efficient processes for maintaining and monitoring consistent interpretation of data requirements following the implementation of vich guidelines. by means of a constructive dialogue between regulatory authorities and industry, provide technical guidance enabling response to significant emerging global issues and science that impact on regulatory requirements within the vich regions. employees as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately 9,000 employees worldwide, which included approximately 4,000 employees in the united states and approximately 5,000 in other jurisdictions. some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 50 union employees in the united states. environmental, health and safety we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. certain environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third-party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. in addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. in connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2016 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows: environmental-related capital expenditures - $4 million; and other environmental-related expenditures - $16 million. however, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. in connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. we have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all. 11 | table of contents while we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. available information the company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. on our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance at zoetis and our board of directors, including as follows: our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; zoetis policies on business conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller); code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; board committees and committee charters; and ways to communicate by email with our directors. we will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our corporate secretary, zoetis inc., 10 sylvan way, parsippany, new jersey 07054. information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. we will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of these ethics policies and standards affecting our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable sec and nyse rules. we use our website (www.zoetis.com) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure promulgated by the sec. these disclosures are included in the investors and news &amp; media sections of our website. accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. the information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, a part of this 2016 annual report, or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our references to the urls for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information set forth in this 2016 annual report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. we generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, could, expect, intend, project, plan, predict, believe, seek, continue, outlook, "objective," "target," may, might, will, should, can have, likely or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events. in particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to our indebtedness, our ability to make interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, our ability to satisfy the covenants contained in our indebtedness, the redemption of our senior notes, expectations regarding indebtedness, the repurchase of shares, future use of cash and dividend payments, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, r&amp;d costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, interest rates, tax rates, changes in tax regimes and laws, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, our agreements with pfizer, the expected timing and content of regulatory actions, government regulation and financial results. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and are potentially inaccurate assumptions. however, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. you should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business and industry restrictions and bans on the use of antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent. the issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterial resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, continue to be the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. in some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). these restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. our total revenue attributable to antibacterials for livestock was approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended december 31, 2016 . 12 | table of contents for example, in december 2013, the fda announced final guidance establishing procedures for the voluntary phase-out in the united states over a three-year period of the use of medically important antibacterials in animal feed for growth promotion in food production animals (medically important antibacterials include classes that are prescribed in animal and human health). the guidance provides for continued use of antibacterials in food producing animals for treatment, control and under certain circumstances for prevention of disease, all under the supervision of a veterinarian. the fda indicated that it took this action to help preserve the efficacy of medically important antibacterials to treat infections in humans. as part of those efforts, stricter regulations governing the administration of medically important antibiotics have recently come into effect. as of january 1, 2017, the use of medically important antibiotics in the water or feed of food production animals now requires written authorization by a licensed veterinarian. zoetis supports the fda's efforts to voluntarily phase out growth promotion indications for medically important antibiotics in food producing animals and is complying with procedures outlined in the december 2013 fda guidance. in addition, in october 2014, the french parliament passed a law that prohibits rebates and discounts on antibiotics and requires the reporting of antibiotics sold to and agreements entered into with certain animal healthcare providers (including veterinarians, veterinary schools, pharmacists and students). the parliament indicated that the law is in response to a government initiative aimed at fighting antimicrobial resistance in animals and reducing the use of certain categories of antibiotics by 25% (compared to 2013) by december 31, 2016. we cannot predict whether antibacterial resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations or public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products could cause a decline in the sales of such products. our livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. if the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. for example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition, health-related or other concerns. any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products. companies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. if livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, new or more stringent regulations could, directly or indirectly, impact the use of one or more of our products. more stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products. an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products. sales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. in addition, outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. in recent years, outbreaks of various diseases, including avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as bse or mad cow disease) or porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (otherwise known as pedv), have impacted the animal health business. for example, incidences of bse in the united states and brazil in 2012 led certain countries to implement additional inspections of, or suspend the importation of, u.s. and brazilian beef. similarly, outbreaks of highly pathogenic h5 avian flu affected (infected or exposed) 48 million birds in the united states in 2014 and 2015, and significantly impacted the egg and turkey industry. the discovery of additional cases of any of these, or new, diseases may result in additional restrictions on animal proteins, reduced herd sizes, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. consolidation of our customers and distributors could negatively affect the pricing of our products. veterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. in recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. in addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, and our distributors, have seen recent consolidation in their industries. furthermore, we have seen the expansion of larger cross-border corporate customers and an increase in the consolidation of buying groups (cooperatives of veterinary practices that leverage volume to pursue discounts from manufacturers). the pace of consolidation and structure of markets varies greatly across geographies. if these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers and distributors could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. the resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business may be negatively affected by weather conditions and the availability of natural resources. the animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in particular regions are affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. as a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. 13 | table of contents in addition, veterinary hospitals and practitioners depend on visits from and access to animals under their care. veterinarians' patient volume and ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience prolonged snow, ice or other weather conditions, particularly in regions not accustomed to sustained inclement weather. furthermore, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. in the event of adverse weather conditions or a shortage of fresh water, veterinarians or livestock producers may purchase less of our products. for example, the widespread drought that impacted the united states in 2011, 2012 and in some regions in 2013 was considered the worst in many years, resulting in a reduction in the total cow herd in 2013. droughts such as this one can lead to a decrease in harvested corn and higher corn prices, which may impact the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock sizes that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. in addition, droughts can lead to reduced availability of grazing pastures, forcing cattle producers to cull their herds. fewer heads of cattle could result in reduced demand for our products. a prolonged drought could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions. macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. certain of our customers and suppliers could be affected directly by an economic downturn and could face credit issues or cash flow problems that could give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. for example, the economic downturns experienced in many markets across the globe have had an impact on certain of our customers and, as a result, on our operating results in those affected markets. if one or more of our large customers, including distributors, discontinue their relationship with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. furthermore, our exposure to credit and collectability risk is higher in certain international markets and our ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit and collectability risk, there can be no assurances such procedures will effectively limit such risk and avoid losses. our business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income. feed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. these shifts could result in a decrease in sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership. changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products. in most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. companion animal owners increasingly have the option to purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. this trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years. companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on internet-based animal health information. because we market our companion animal prescription products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. legislation has also been proposed in the united states, and may be proposed in the united states or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. for example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the american veterinary medical association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice. over time, these and other competitive conditions may increase our reliance on internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. we may be unable to sustain our current margins and we may not be adequately prepared or able to distribute our products if an increased portion of our sales is through these channels. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the animal health industry is highly competitive. the animal health industry is highly competitive. we believe many of our competitors are conducting r&amp;d activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. our competitors include the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies and specialty animal health businesses. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. these competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. as a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. in addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines and vaccines industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. 14 | table of contents to the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us. generic products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products. we face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. we depend on patents and regulatory data exclusivity periods to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained.the extent of protection afforded by our patents varies from country to country and is limited by the scope of the claimed subject matter of our patents, the term of the patent and the availability and enforcement of legal remedies in the applicable country. as a result, we may face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products. generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of launching at risk before patent rights expire and, because of their pricing, are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. for example, several companies have launched generic versions of our rimadyl chewable product. as a result, sales of our rimadyl chewable product in the u.s. decreased by approximately 6% in 2016. if animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. over the next several years, several of our products' patents will expire. the active ingredient of draxxin, tulathromycin, is covered by both compound and formulation patents in the united states, europe, canada, australia and other key markets, with terms that expire between may 2019 and january 2021 in the united states, between november 2018 and november 2020 in europe, and between may 2018 and november 2020 in canada and australia. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line (excede) began expiring in the united states in 2015. however, various formulation and use patents relevant to the product line extend through to 2024. the compound patent for the selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticide revolution, expired in 2014. again, we have process and formulation patents covering this product which expire in important markets in 2018 and 2019, respectively. the patent for the active ingredient of convenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between november 2022 and january 2024. the patent relating to the formulation of orbeseal expires in december 2017. zoetis typically enforces all of its patents. we may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses. we pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. we may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. in addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. we may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. we also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. we may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient. these effects could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully implement our business strategies or achieve expected gross margin improvements. we are pursuing, and will continue to pursue, strategic initiatives that management considers critical to our long-term success, including, but not limited to, increasing sales in emerging markets; operational revenue growth through new product development and value-added product lifecycle innovation; improving operational efficiency through manufacturing efficiency improvement and other programs; using cash flow from operations to service or reduce debt; and expanding our complementary products and services. we also have acquired or partnered with a number of smaller animal health businesses, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. there are significant risks involved with the execution of these initiatives, including significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. accordingly, we cannot predict whether we will succeed in implementing these strategic initiatives. it could take several years to realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, if any benefits are achieved at all. we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements on our products and technologies, including those acquired and those developed internally. additionally, our business strategy may change from time to time, which could delay our ability to implement initiatives that we believe are important to our business. our business could be affected adversely by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages. some of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the united states. as a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenue and net income. we may also experience difficulty or delays in implementing changes to our workforce in certain markets. in addition, labor problems at our suppliers or cmos could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 15 | table of contents loss of our executive officers could disrupt our operations. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers. our executive officers are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. in addition, we generally do not enter into employment agreements with our executive officers. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officer positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. the loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs and not achieve anticipated benefits and savings from our comprehensive operational efficiency initiative. on may 5, 2015, we announced an initiative to simplify our operations, improve our efficiency and cost structure, and better allocate our resources to key growth opportunities in animal health. as part of the initiative, we have reduced staff and plan to close or divest certain facilities. we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits and savings from our efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, the complexity inherent in unwinding our current structure, and delays or unexpected costs, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. as a result of our operational efficiency initiative, we are operating our business initiatives under a new business model and, in some instances, existing employees have and will be transitioning to new key roles. we must also attract, retain and motivate key employees who are critical to our business. if we are unable to effectively execute this new business model and transition key roles and/or attract, retain and motivate key employees, it may adversely impact our business. we may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. as of december 31, 2016 , we had goodwill of $ 1,481 million and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $ 1,228 million . identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents, acquired customer relationships and in-process r&amp;d. determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. the timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our consolidated statements of income and write-downs recorded in our consolidated balance sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. our historical combined financial data is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical combined financial data for periods prior to the ipo (the year ended december 31, 2012, and the period ended january 31, 2013) included in this 2016 annual report does not reflect the financial condition, or results of operations we would have achieved as an independent company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. this is primarily the result of the following factors: our historical combined financial data does not reflect the separation from pfizer; our historical combined financial data reflects expense allocations for certain support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within pfizer, such as expenses for business technology, facilities, legal, finance, human resources, business development, public affairs and procurement, as well as certain manufacturing and supply costs incurred by manufacturing sites that are shared with other pfizer business units that may be higher or lower than the comparable expenses we would have actually incurred, or will incur, as an independent company; our cost of debt and our capital structure is different from that reflected in our historical combined financial data; significant increases may occur in our cost structure as a result of our being an independent public company, including costs related to public company reporting, investor relations and compliance with the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (sarbanes-oxley act); and loss of economies of scale as a result of our no longer being a part of pfizer. our financial condition and future results of operations will be materially different from amounts reflected in our historical combined financial data included in this 2016 annual report for the periods prior to the ipo. as a result of the separation from pfizer, it may be difficult for investors to compare our future results to historical results or to evaluate our relative performance or trends in our business. risks related to research and development our r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle innovations. our future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to r&amp;d, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties. we may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. in addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenue that are consistent with our expectations. the animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. furthermore, the timing and cost of our r&amp;d may increase, and our r&amp;d may become less predictable. for example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to research, develop and register products. 16 | table of contents products in the animal health industry are sometimes derived from molecules and compounds discovered or developed as part of human health research. we have and expect to continue to enter into collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties, including pfizer, to provide us with access to compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. if we are unable to access human health-generated molecules and compounds to conduct r&amp;d on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited. advances in veterinary medical practices and animal health technologies could negatively affect the market for our products. the market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including green or holistic health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. in addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our r&amp;d relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional regulations. as an animal health medicines and vaccines business, the evaluation of our existing and new products in animals is required to register our products. animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. to the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our r&amp;d, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. risks related to manufacturing manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs. in order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship our products in sufficient quantities. on december 31, 2016 , we had a global manufacturing network consisting of 25 manufacturing sites located in 11 countries. as part of our operational efficiency program and supply network strategy, we have exited, or are in the process of exiting, certain of these sites. for more information, see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations operational efficiency program and supply network strategy. we also employ a network of approximately 200 third party cmos, including a number owned by pfizer. many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. minor deviations in our manufacturing or logistical processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. in addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers, including logistical service providers, to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines; construction delays; equipment malfunctions; shortages of materials; labor problems; natural disasters; power outages; criminal and terrorist activities; changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. these interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for example, our manufacturing site in medolla, italy was damaged in an earthquake in may 2012, which resulted in production interruptions at that site. in addition, at the time of launch we experienced challenges in manufacturing apoquel that impacted our ability to meet customer demand. as a result, we had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians could purchase and delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. the unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. in addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. 17 | table of contents as part of our operational efficiency program and supply network strategy, our manufacturing network is undergoing significant changes. we may be unable to achieve the planned cost-savings from these changes. in addition, we may experience delays and disruptions in our supply network as a result of these activities. we rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services and are subject to increased labor and material costs. the materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. in addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products. we may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole source of certain materials necessary for production of our products. we may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. risks related to legal matters and regulation we may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. these matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of united states and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, breach of contract and tort. in addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. for example, in the united states, attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. if such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. an adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. there may be increased risk of product liability claims if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. for example, ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is abused by humans as a hallucinogen. furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. if we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products or of stolen, diverted or relabeled products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products that do not meet the exacting standards of our development, manufacturing and distribution processes. counterfeit or illegally compounded medicines pose a significant risk to animal health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents. counterfeit or illegally compounded products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening to animals. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or illegally compounded products which are alleged to be equivalent and/or which are sold under our brand name. we are aware of at least one pharmacy in the united states and one pharmacy in brazil that may be engaged in the practice of illegally compounding oclacitinib, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our apoquel product. in addition, products stolen or unlawfully diverted from inventory, warehouses, plants or while in transit, which are not properly stored or which have an expired shelf life and which have been repackaged or relabeled and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact animal health and safety, our reputation and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of vaccines and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, illegally compounding or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. animal health products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns, which may harm our reputation. unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to animal health products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims. for example, as a result of safety concerns related to our product, pregsure bvd, in 2010, we voluntarily suspended sales of the product and withdrew the marketing authorization in the eu and, in 2011, we suspended sales and withdrew the marketing authorization for the product in new zealand. 18 | table of contents regulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product's sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results. in addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, qualify or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. these concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. our business is subject to substantial regulation. as a global company, we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of our products. in addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory agencies. an inspection may report conditions or practices that indicate possible violations of regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with these regulatory requirements, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in, among other things, inspection observation notices, warning letters or similar regulatory correspondence, fines, a partial or total shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while an alleged violation is remediated, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims. any one of these consequences could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. in connection with the separation from pfizer, we have changed the location of the manufacture of certain of our products and, because of these changes, may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. furthermore, we cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, or changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the united states of income earned outside the united states. changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, regulatory agencies have recently increased their focus on the potential for vaccines to induce immunity anomalies. absent a clear understanding of these anomalies, regulatory scrutiny of vaccines may become stricter. additional scrutiny or regulation of our vaccine products could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under cercla or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. see item 1. business environmental, health and safety . the costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. a failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. risks related to our international operations a significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business. our international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: volatility in the international financial markets; 19 | table of contents compliance with governmental controls; difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; parallel trade in our products (importation of our products from european union countries where our products are sold at lower prices into european union countries where the products are sold at higher prices); compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the fcpa and similar non-u.s. laws and regulations; compliance with foreign labor laws; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements; changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers, including the imposition of limits on our profitability (e.g., the venezuelan law on fair pricing); political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts; trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of treasury (ofac) and the european union, in relation to our products or the products of farmers and other customers (e.g., restrictions on the importation of agricultural products from the european union to russia); government limitations on foreign ownership; government takeover or nationalization of business; changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs; imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions; costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk; and additional limitations on transferring personal information between countries or other restrictions on the processing of personal information. in addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. a failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. in addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized importation or unauthorized re-importation of our products between jurisdictions and may also result in the imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the european union, and this uncertainty may persist for years. a withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union could also result in similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which we do business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and could affect sales or regulation of our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. foreign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. we conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. in 2016 , we generated approximately 46% of our revenue in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, brazilian real and canadian dollar. we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenue. in addition, because our financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. for example, on february 13, 2013, the venezuelan government devalued its currency from a rate of 4.3 to 6.3 venezuelan bolivars per u.s. dollar. we immediately incurred a foreign currency loss of $9 million on the devaluation as a result of remeasuring the local assets and liabilities. on november 30, 2015, we recorded a net remeasurement loss of $89 million on bolivar-denominated net monetary assets, primarily related to cash deposits in venezuela. our venezuelan subsidiary's functional currency is the u.s. dollar because of the hyperinflationary status of the venezuelan economy. effective march 10, 2016, the venezuelan government made the following changes to its foreign currency exchange mechanisms: (i) the three-tier exchange rate system existing in the country changed to a dual system with the elimination of the sicad rate, (ii) the official cencoex rate was 20 | table of contents replaced with dipro and was devalued from 6.3 to 10 venezuelan bolivars per u.s. dollar, and (iii) the simadi rate was replaced with dicom. as of november 30, 2016, the venezuelan bolivar to u.s. dollar exchange rates were the dipro rate of 10 and the dicom rate of 663. beginning in the second quarter of 2016, we use the dicom rate to report our venezuela financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. while we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or be unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. we currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including china, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets. we have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets. failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. for example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. in addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. for example, in the past, our revenue in certain emerging markets in latin america has been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations. for all these and other reasons, sales within emerging markets carry significant risks. risks related to tax matters the company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or foreign tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. the multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. for example, the european commission opened formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in certain european countries, including belgium, comply with european union rules on state aid. in the case of belgium, the european commission concluded on january 11, 2016, that the excess profits ruling violates the european union's state aid rules. the impact of this conclusion was a net tax charge of approximately $35 million recorded in 2016. this net charge relates to the belgium government's recovery of benefits for the periods 2013 through 2015 offset by the revaluation of the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities using the rates expected to be in place at the time of the reversal and without consideration of implementation of any future operational changes, and does not include any benefits associated with a successful appeal of the decision. in addition, on june 20, 2016, the member states of the european union adopted the anti-tax-avoidance directive proposed on january 28, 2016, which is designed to provide uniform implementation of base erosion and profits shifting measures and other minimum taxation standards across member states. the member states are required to implement all components of the directive by january 1, 2020. once enacted by the member states, the results of the directive could have an impact on our effective tax rate. in october 2016, the european union also introduced a proposal to impose a uniform set of rules on taxing corporate profits, known as the common consolidated corporate tax base. this proposal is in its early stages but may have an impact to our effective tax rate. the new administration in the united states has called for comprehensive tax reform in the u.s. which, among other things, might change certain u.s. tax rules impacting the way u.s. based multinationals are taxed on foreign income. changes to the tax system in the united states, particularly the potential mandatory deemed repatriation tax, could have a material impact to our financial statements. as of december 31, 2016, the cumulative amount of non-u.s. undistributed earnings was approximately $7.4 billion. of this cumulative amount, zoetis was allocated $6.4 billion in non-u.s. undistributed earnings from pfizer as a result of the separation on june 24, 2013, with minimal cash associated with these earnings. the potential impact of the mandatory deemed repatriation proposal is uncertain as the direction of comprehensive tax reform is being contemplated under the new administration in the united states. at this time, we are properly reflecting the provision for taxes on income using all current enacted global tax laws in every jurisdiction in which we operate. in addition, our effective tax rate is subject to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. the company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if the company's effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or other material foreign jurisdictions, or if the ultimate determination of the company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the company's operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. 21 | table of contents risks related to intellectual property the alleged intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business. a third party may sue us or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. if we do not prevail in this type of dispute, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future. the costs of defending an intellectual property action are often substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such action. the intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not provide the right to practice the patented technology or develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. we cannot guarantee that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not obtain rights to intellectual property that, in the absence of a license, may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. if our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret, data protection, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. for example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. the validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. patent law reform in the united states and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights, or make such enforcement financially unattractive. for instance, u.s. court decisions in the recent years have led to u.s. patent and trademark office guidelines regarding inventions in the field of products isolated from nature and diagnostic methods which may influence future patenting strategy in these areas. a similar court decision in australia was issued recently with regard to the patentability of nucleic acids. such reforms could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property and/or limit our ability to patent our products in these jurisdictions. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. likewise, in the united states and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or re-label a product. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. many of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. the misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states, may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. in the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, or the cost of enforcing our intellectual property may outweigh the value of doing so; either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. 22 | table of contents risks related to information technology we depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems to manage our operations, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. system failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our customers, or delay our financial reporting. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we depend on third parties and applications on virtualized (cloud) infrastructure to operate and support our information systems. these third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. failure by these providers to adequately support our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we have implemented new business systems to support our operations, including an enterprise resource planning (erp) system to better integrate our manufacturing, financial, commercial and business operations, and may in the future implement new information systems. transitioning to new systems, integrating new systems into current systems or any disruptions or malfunctions (including from circumstances beyond our control) affecting our information systems could cause critical information upon which we rely to be delayed, unreliable, corrupted, insufficient or inaccessible. for example, although the u.s. implementation of our erp system in 2015 was successful from a systems and controls point of view, we experienced challenges with certain of our customers experiencing a disruption in their service due to the large number of customers directly impacted by our change of systems. any of these potential issues, individually or in aggregation, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. assuming we are able to implement new systems successfully, all information systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if our information systems were to fail or be breached, such failure or breach could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised. we may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites. in many markets around the world, such as the united states and brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. the operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone or internet service or power outages; failures of the information systems that support our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation. we may be unable to adequately protect our information technology systems from cyber-attacks, breaches of security or misappropriation of data, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and subject us to significant financial and legal exposure. our reputation as a global leader in animal health and our reliance on complex information systems make us inherently vulnerable to malicious cyber intrusion and attack. cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. cyber-attacks could include wrongful conduct by hostile foreign governments, industrial espionage, the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service, and other means to threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. in addition, despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromise of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information (including confidential business information, trade secrets and corporate strategic plans), defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. like other global companies, we have experienced threats to our data and information technology systems. to date, those threats have not had a material impact on our business operations or financial condition. however, although we devote resources to protect our information technology systems, we expect cyber-attacks to continue, and there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent information security breaches that would result in business, legal or reputational harm to us, or would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our customers' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws. the protection of customer, employee and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, our customers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws could result in lost sales, remediation costs, and legal liability including severe penalties, regulatory action and reputational harm. despite our considerable efforts and investments in technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. in addition, the payment card industry (pci) is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in pci's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with pci security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 23 | table of contents risks related to our indebtedness we have substantial indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately $4.5 billion of total unsecured indebtedness outstanding. in addition, we have entered into an agreement for a five-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future. we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; impacting our effective tax rate; and increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. for example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with affiliates and incur priority indebtedness. our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including certain international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock. we may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes. upon the occurrence of a change of control of us and a downgrade below investment grade by moody's investor services, inc. and standard &amp; poor's rating services, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. we did not receive any proceeds from the sale of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the pfizer-owned notes and we paid an amount of cash equal to substantially all of the net proceeds that we received in the senior notes offering to pfizer prior to the completion of the ipo. as a result of these and other factors, we may not have sufficient funds available to finance a change of control offer. 24 | table of contents our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes. the credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs. risks related to our relationship with pfizer certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with pfizer. certain of our directors are employed or have been employed by pfizer or may own pfizer common stock, options to purchase pfizer common stock or other pfizer equity awards. certain of these holdings may be individually significant to these directors as compared with such director's total assets. these directors' positions at pfizer and the ownership of any pfizer equity or equity awards may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for pfizer than for us. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. these restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 3.250% senior notes due 2023. pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products. under the patent and know-how license agreement (pfizer as licensor) (the patent and know-how license agreement), pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. if we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. in addition, in circumstances where pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or, in limited instances, subject to pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. these limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time-consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. we are dependent on pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. under the patent and know-how license agreement, pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that pfizer licenses to us. in the animal health field, pfizer has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such licensed patents, and in the human health field, subject to certain exceptions, pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents. if pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under this agreement, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. if there is a later determination that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986 (the code). completion by pfizer of the exchange offer was conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of pfizer or us after the exchange offer. if the exchange offer or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment in zoetis common stock as a result. our common stock has a limited trading history and there may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our common stock as a result of many factors. from our ipo through december 31, 2016, the sales price of our common stock as reported by the nyse has ranged from a low sales price of $28.14 on april 15, 2014 to a high sales price of $55.38 on june 25, 2015. some factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section and in our 2016 annual report, are: 25 | table of contents our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; our or our competitors' press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; changes in our investor base; failures to meet external expectations or management guidance; fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; reputational issues; changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business; the arrival or departure of key personnel; the actions of speculators and financial arbitrageurs (such as hedge funds); changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and other developments or changes affecting us, our industry or our competitors. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. on december 16, 2016, our board of directors declared the 2017 first quarter dividend of $0.105 per share to be paid on march 1, 2017, to holders of record on january 20, 2017; and on february 14, 2016, our board of directors declared the 2017 second quarter dividend of $0.105 per share to be paid on june 1, 2017, to holders of record on april 6, 2017. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock. we anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows available in the united states, impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, and delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and our amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as our by-laws, contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. in addition, delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a significant portion of our revenue and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. in addition, our outstanding borrowings may be subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using certain financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. foreign exchange risk our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the australian dollar, brazilian real, canadian dollar, euro, and u.k. pound. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenue in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. our financial instruments at december 31, 2016 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined using level 2 inputs. for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 3. significant accounting policies: fair value . the sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency forward-exchange contracts at december 31, 2016 , indicates that if the u.s. dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $ 31 million , and if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $ 38 million . for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 9b. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments . interest rate risk our outstanding debt balances are fixed rate debt. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on our fixed rate debt, interest on our revolving credit facility will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2016 , we had no outstanding principal balance under our revolving credit facility. see notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. financial instruments . 56 | table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors risks related to our international operations . sales and marketing our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products. our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to provide information and to promote and sell our products and services. our technical and veterinary operations specialists, who generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees, provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use. these direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. as a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. as of december 31, 2017 , our sales organization consisted of approximately 2,900 employees. our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. on a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. we also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners. 6 | table of contents customers we sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork and poultry operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that then typically sell the products to livestock producers. we primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 14% and 7%, respectively, of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2017 , and no other customer represented more than 6% of our revenue for the same period. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine r&amp;d organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development, registration and regulatory maintenance of our products. we incurred r&amp;d expense of $ 382 million in 2017 , $ 376 million in 2016 and $ 364 million in 2015 . our r&amp;d efforts are comprised of more than 200 programs and reflect our commitment to develop better solutions. we create new insights for preventing and treating disease, and maximizing healthy performance, that result in the development of new platforms of knowledge which become the basis for continuous innovation. leveraging internal discoveries, complemented by diverse external research collaborations, results in the delivery of novel vaccine, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products to help our customers face their toughest challenges. while the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product r&amp;d plays a critical role in our growth strategies, a significant share of our r&amp;d investment (including regulatory functions) is focused on product lifecycle innovation. a commitment to continuous innovation, based on customer need, ensures we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. we also create opportunities to optimize solutions through our extensive capabilities in diagnostics and genetics research, ensuring we can help our customers predict, prevent, detect and treat a variety of conditions. we prioritize our r&amp;d spending on an annual basis with the goal of aligning our research and business objectives, and do not disaggregate our r&amp;d operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. we make our strategic investments in r&amp;d based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. a centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend. this view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. the allocation of our r&amp;d investment between product lifecycle innovation and new product development, in addition to our ability to leverage the discoveries of our existing r&amp;d and other industries, supports a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable r&amp;d process. we regularly enter into agreements with external parties that enable us to collaborate on research programs or gain access to substrates and technologies. some of our external partnerships involve funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. we are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental expertise for, as well as investment in, such external partnerships. depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models. as of december 31, 2017 , we employed approximately 1,000 employees in our global r&amp;d operations. our r&amp;d headquarters is located in kalamazoo, michigan. we have r&amp;d operations co-located with manufacturing sites in louvain-la-neuve, belgium; campinas, brazil; olot, spain; kalamazoo, michigan; and lincoln, nebraska, united states. we co-locate r&amp;d operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. in addition, we maintain r&amp;d operations in sydney, australia; zaventem, belgium; o paulo, brazil; beijing, china; navi mumbai, india; and durham, north carolina, united states. we also maintain r&amp;d operations in farum, denmark, suzhou, china; thanh binh, vietnam; hong ngu, vietnam; and oslo, norway, related to our acquisitions of pharmaq and scandinavian micro biodevices. each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents. manufacturing and supply chain our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as cmos. we have a global manufacturing network of 25 sites. 7 | table of contents our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites: site location site location campinas brazil melbourne australia catania italy olot spain charles city iowa, u.s. oslo norway chicago heights illinois, u.s. overhalla norway durham north carolina, u.s. rathdrum (b) ireland eagle grove iowa, u.s. salisbury maryland, u.s. farum denmark san diego california, u.s. jilin (a) china suzhou china kalamazoo michigan, u.s. tullamore (c) ireland lincoln nebraska, u.s. wellington new zealand london ontario, canada white hall illinois, u.s. louvain-la-neuve belgium willow island west virginia, u.s. medolla italy (a) in september 2017, zoetis acquired the remaining noncontrolling interest in our china joint venture, jilin zoetis guoyan animal health company, ltd. (b) in september 2017, zoetis completed the purchase of a manufacturing facility in rathdrum, ireland. we are investing in this facility and expect it to be ready for commercial production in 2020. (c) in july 2017, zoetis acquired a biologic therapeutics company in ireland. we will be investing in this facility to prepare it for commercial production. we own all of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in medolla (italy), melbourne (australia), san diego, california (u.s.) and tullamore (ireland), which are leased sites. in addition to our global manufacturing network and our cmos, pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at four pfizer sites pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of cmos. as of december 31, 2017 , this network was comprised of approximately 180 cmos, including those centrally managed as well as local cmos. we select cmos based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) their access to niche products and technologies; (iii) capacity; and (iv) financial efficiency analyses. our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the cmos we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality. we purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. we utilize logistics service providers as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support. we intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including six sigma and lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. we have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and cmo sites. as a result of a review of our global manufacturing and supply network, we have announced plans to exit or sell certain sites and have exited eight manufacturing sites since 2015, including yantai (china) and guarulhos (brazil) in 2017. see operational efficiency program and supply network strategy . competition although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines and vaccines industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. our primary competitors include animal health medicines and vaccines companies such as boehringer ingelheim animal health inc., the animal health division of boehringer ingelheim gmbh, which acquired merial, former animal health division of sanofi s.a., in january 2017; merck animal health, the animal health division of merck &amp; co., inc.; elanco, the animal health division of eli lilly and company; and bayer animal health, the animal health division of bayer ag. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. in addition, we compete with hundreds of other producers of animal health products throughout the world. the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. for example, the level of generic competition is higher in europe and certain emerging markets than in the united states. unlike in the human health market, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. the reasons for this include the relatively smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. in addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians. the importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. as a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity. 8 | table of contents intellectual property our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. we rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate. our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 5,200 granted patents and 1,700 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with a focus on our major markets, including australia, brazil, canada, china, europe, japan and the united states, as well as other countries with strong patent systems. many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our in-house research and development, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were wholly or partially developed by third parties and are licensed to zoetis. patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. the active ingredient of draxxin, tulathromycin, is covered by both compound and formulation patents in the united states, europe, canada, australia and other key markets, with terms that expire between may 2019 and january 2021 in the united states, between november 2018 and november 2020 in europe, and between may 2018 and november 2020 in canada and australia. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line (excede) began expiring in the united states in 2015. however, various formulation and use patents relevant to the product line extend through to 2024. the compound patent for selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticide revolution, expired in 2014. again, we have process and formulation patents covering this product which expire in important markets in 2018 and 2019, respectively. the patent for the active ingredient of convenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between november 2022 and october 2023. the patent for the active ingredient of cerenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between may 2020 and january 2027. the patent relating to the formulation of orbeseal expired in december 2017. zoetis typically enforces all of its patents. additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement. as a result of our separation from pfizer, where necessary pfizer has licensed to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we license to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a perpetual license to use certain of pfizer's product name trademarks. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. we currently maintain more than 10,000 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals. operational efficiency program and supply network strategy during 2015, we launched a comprehensive operational efficiency program, which was incremental to the previously announced supply network strategy. these initiatives have focused on reducing complexity in our product portfolios through the elimination of approximately 5,000 product stock keeping units (skus), changing our selling approach in certain markets, reducing our presence in certain countries, and planning to sell or exit 10 manufacturing sites over the long term. as of december 31, 2017 , we divested or exited three u.s. manufacturing sites, four international manufacturing sites, and our 55 percent ownership share of a taiwan joint venture, inclusive of its related manufacturing site. we are also continuing to optimize our resource allocation and efficiency by reducing resources associated with non-customer facing activities and operating more efficiently as a result of less internal complexity and more standardization of processes. as part of these initiatives, we planned to reduce certain positions through divestitures, normal attrition and involuntary terminations by approximately 2,000 to 2,500, subject to consultations with works councils and unions in certain countries. in 2016, the operations of the guarulhos, brazil manufacturing site, including approximately 300 employees, were transferred to us from pfizer, which increased our range of planned reduction in certain positions to 2,300 to 2,800. including divestitures, as of december 31, 2017, approximately 2,600 positions have been eliminated. the comprehensive operational efficiency program is substantially complete, however in the fourth quarter of 2017, we expanded the supply network strategy initiative which increases our planned reductions in certain positions by 40. we expect these additional reductions related to our supply network strategy to take place over the next twelve months, and the remainder of the reductions from the initial plan to take place through divestitures over the next several years. regulatory the sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. to maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. in the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. united states united states food and drug administration (fda). the regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the united states is the center for veterinary medicine (cvm), housed within the fda. all manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the federal food, drug and cosmetic 9 | table of contents act. the fda's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a freedom of information summary. post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the cvm's surveillance and compliance group. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source. united states department of agriculture (usda). the regulatory body in the united states for veterinary vaccines is the usda. the usda's center for veterinary biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. all manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the virus serum toxin act. post-approval monitoring of products is required. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements. environmental protection agency (epa). the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides is the epa. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. outside the united states european union (eu). the european medicines agency (ema) is the centralized regulatory agency of the eu, located in london. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by healthcare companies seeking centralized approval for use in the eu. the agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. the committee for veterinary medicinal products (cvmp) is responsible for scientific and technical review of the submissions for innovative pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals and vaccines. after the cvmp issues a positive opinion on the approvability of a product, the eu commission reviews the opinion and, if they agree with the cvmp, they grant the product market authorization. once granted by the european commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all eu and european economic area-european free trade association states. products can also be registered in the eu via a decentralized route under the supervision of the co-ordination group for mutual recognition and decentralized procedures - veterinary (cmdv). this co-ordination group is composed of one representative per member state from each national regulatory agency, including norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the cmdv reviews submissions of pharmaceuticals and vaccines for authorization of a veterinary product in two or more member states in accordance with the mutual recognition or the decentralized procedure. a series of regulations, directives, guidelines and eu pharmacopeia monographs provide the requirements for product approval in the eu. in general, these requirements are similar to those in the united states, requiring demonstrated evidence of, safety, efficacy, and quality/consistency of manufacturing processes. brazil. the ministry of agriculture, livestock production and supply (mapa) is the regulatory body in brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. mapa's regulatory activities are conducted through the secretary of agricultural defense and its livestock products inspection department. in addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the federal agriculture superintendence. these activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. mapa is one of the most active regulatory agencies in latin america, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as codex alimentarius, world organization for animal health and committee of veterinary medicines for the americas. mapa was also invited to be a latin american representative at meetings of the international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). several normative instructions issued by mapa have set regulatory trends in latin america. australia. the australian pesticides and veterinary medicines authority (apvma) is an australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the australian marketplace. previously each state and territory government had its own system of registration. the apvma assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the apvma's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. if the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the apvma will register the product. as well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the apvma reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job users expect and are safe to use. the apvma also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. the review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. in some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being canceled and the product taken off the market. rest of world. country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. with the exception of the eu, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the fda, usda, eu and other international animal health entities, including the world organization for animal health, codex alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines. global policy and guidance joint fao/who expert committee on food additives. the joint fao/who expert committee on food additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the world health 10 | table of contents organization (who). they provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. we work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. this in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain. advertising and promotion review. promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. these rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. we conduct a review of promotion materials for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products. food safety inspection service/generally recognized as safe. the fda is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including generally recognized as safe substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. however, although the fda has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the food safety and inspection service, the public health agency in the usda, still retains, under the tenets of the federal meat inspection act and the poultry products inspection act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products. international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). vich is a trilateral (eu-japan-usa) program aimed at harmonizing technical requirements for veterinary product registration. the objectives of the vich are as follows: establish and implement harmonized technical requirements for the registration of veterinary medicinal products in the vich regions, which meet high quality, safety and efficacy standards and minimize the use of test animals and costs of product development. provide a basis for wider international harmonization of registration requirements through the vich outreach forum. monitor and maintain existing vich guidelines, taking particular note of the ich work program and, where necessary, update these vich guidelines. ensure efficient processes for maintaining and monitoring consistent interpretation of data requirements following the implementation of vich guidelines. by means of a constructive dialogue between regulatory authorities and industry, provide technical guidance enabling response to significant emerging global issues and science that impact on regulatory requirements within the vich regions. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 9,200 employees worldwide, which included approximately 3,950 employees in the united states and approximately 5,250 in other jurisdictions. some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 50 union employees in the united states. environmental, health and safety we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. certain environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third-party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. in addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. in connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2017 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows: environmental-related capital expenditures - approximately $6 million; and other environmental-related expenditures - approximately $9 million. however, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. such liability could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. in connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. we have also entered into indemnification agreements 11 | table of contents in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all. while we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. available information the company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. on our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance at zoetis and our board of directors, including as follows: our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; zoetis code of conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller); code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; board committees and committee charters; and ways to communicate by email with our directors. we will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our corporate secretary, zoetis inc., 10 sylvan way, parsippany, new jersey 07054. information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. we will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of these ethics policies and standards affecting our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable sec and nyse rules. we use our website (www.zoetis.com) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure promulgated by the sec. these disclosures are included in the investors and news &amp; media sections of our website. accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. the information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, a part of this 2017 annual report, or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our references to the urls for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information set forth in this 2017 annual report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. we generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, could, expect, intend, project, plan, predict, believe, seek, continue, outlook, "objective," "target," may, might, will, should, can have, likely or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events. in particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to our 2018 financial guidance, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, product supply disruptions, r&amp;d costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, integration of acquired businesses, interest rates, tax rates, changes in tax regimes and laws, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans related to share repurchases and dividends, our agreements with pfizer, government regulation and financial results. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and are potentially inaccurate assumptions. however, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. you should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business and industry restrictions and bans on the use of and consumer preferences regarding antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent. the issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterial resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, continue to be the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. in some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). these restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. our total revenue attributable to antibacterials for livestock was approximately $1.2 billion for the year ended december 31, 2017 . 12 | table of contents for example, in december 2013, the fda announced final guidance establishing procedures for the voluntary phase-out in the united states over a three-year period of the use of medically important antibacterials in animal feed for growth promotion in food production animals (medically important antibacterials include classes that are prescribed in animal and human health). the guidance provides for continued use of antibacterials in food producing animals for treatment, control and under certain circumstances for prevention of disease, all under the supervision of a veterinarian. the fda indicated that it took this action to help preserve the efficacy of medically important antibacterials to treat infections in humans. as part of those efforts, stricter regulations governing the administration of medically important antibiotics have recently come into effect. as of january 1, 2017, the use of medically important antibiotics in the water or feed of food production animals now requires written authorization by a licensed veterinarian under the fda guidance and the related rule known as the veterinary feed directive. as a result of the implementation by livestock producers of the fda guidance and the veterinary feed directive, we have seen a negative impact on revenue in the u.s. on certain medicated feed additive products for both cattle and swine in 2017. if these regulations continue to negatively affect our u.s. cattle and swine medicated feed additive revenue, our future operating results could be negatively impacted. in addition, other countries, such as france and vietnam, have passed restrictions or bans on antibiotic use. in certain markets, there has been an increase in consumer preference towards proteins produced without the use of antibiotics. we cannot predict whether antibacterial resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations, public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals or increased consumer preference for antibiotic-free protein, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products could cause a decline in the sales of such products. our livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. if the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. for example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition, health-related or other concerns. any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. animal health products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns, which may harm our reputation. unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to animal health products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims. regulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product's sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results. in addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, qualify or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. these concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products. companies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. if livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, new or more stringent regulations could, directly or indirectly, impact the use of one or more of our products. more stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products. an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products. sales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. in addition, outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. in recent years, outbreaks of various diseases, including avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as bse or mad cow disease) and porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (otherwise known as pedv), have impacted the animal health business. the discovery of additional cases of any of these, or new, diseases may result in additional restrictions on animal proteins, reduced herd sizes, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. consolidation of our customers and distributors could negatively affect the pricing of our products. veterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. in recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. in addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, and our distributors, have seen recent consolidation in their industries. furthermore, we have seen the expansion of larger cross-border corporate customers and an increase in the 13 | table of contents consolidation of buying groups (cooperatives of veterinary practices that leverage volume to pursue discounts from manufacturers). the pace of consolidation and structure of markets varies greatly across geographies. if these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers and distributors could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. the resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business may be negatively affected by weather conditions and the availability of natural resources. the animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in particular regions are affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. as a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. in addition, veterinary hospitals and practitioners depend on visits from and access to animals under their care. veterinarians' patient volume and ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience prolonged snow, ice or other weather conditions, particularly in regions not accustomed to sustained inclement weather. furthermore, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. in the event of adverse weather conditions or a shortage of fresh water, veterinarians or livestock producers may purchase less of our products. for example, the widespread drought that impacted the united states in 2011, 2012 and in some regions in 2013 was considered the worst in many years, resulting in a reduction in the total cow herd in 2013. droughts such as this one can lead to a decrease in harvested corn and higher corn prices, which may impact the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock sizes that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. in addition, droughts can lead to reduced availability of grazing pastures, forcing cattle producers to cull their herds. fewer heads of cattle could result in reduced demand for our products. a prolonged drought could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions. macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. certain of our customers and suppliers could be affected directly by an economic downturn and could face credit issues or cash flow problems that could give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. if one or more of our large customers, including distributors, discontinue their relationship with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. furthermore, our exposure to credit and collectability risk is higher in certain international markets and our ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit and collectability risk, there can be no assurances such procedures will effectively limit such risk and avoid losses. our results of operations are dependent upon the success of our top products. if any of our top products experience issues, such as loss of patent protection, material product liability litigation, new or unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, labeling changes, negative publicity, changes to veterinarian or customer preferences, and/or disruptive innovations or the introduction of more effective products, our revenues could be negatively impacted, perhaps significantly. our top four products, apoquel, the ceftiofur product line, draxxin and revolution, contributed approximately 25% of our revenue in 2017. any issues with these top products would have a more significant impact to our results of operations. modification of u.s. foreign trade policy may harm our u.s. livestock product customers. changes in u.s. laws, agreements and policies governing foreign trade in the territories and countries where our customers do business could negatively impact such customers' businesses and adversely affect our operating results. a number of our customers, particularly u.s.-based livestock producers, benefit from free trade agreements such as the north american free trade agreement (nafta). the current president of the united states has initiated negotiations with canada and mexico aimed at re-negotiating the terms of nafta. efforts by the united states to withdraw from or materially modify nafta or other international trade agreements to which it is a party could harm our customers, and as a result, negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income. feed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. these shifts could result in a decrease in sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership. changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products. in most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. companion animal owners increasingly have the option to purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. this trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years. companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on internet-based animal health information. because we market our companion animal prescription products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such 14 | table of contents products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. legislation has also been proposed in the united states, and may be proposed in the united states or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. for example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the american veterinary medical association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice. over time, these and other competitive conditions may increase our reliance on internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. we may be unable to sustain our current margins and we may not be adequately prepared or able to distribute our products if an increased portion of our sales is through these channels. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the animal health industry is highly competitive. the animal health industry is highly competitive. we believe many of our competitors are conducting r&amp;d activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. our competitors include the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies and specialty animal health businesses. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. these competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. as a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. in addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines and vaccines industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. to the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us. generic products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products. we face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. we depend on patents and regulatory data exclusivity periods to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. the extent of protection afforded by our patents varies from country to country and is limited by the scope of the claimed subject matter of our patents, the term of the patent and the availability and enforcement of legal remedies in the applicable country. as a result, we may face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products. generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of launching at risk before patent rights expire and, because of their pricing, are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. for example, several companies have launched generic versions of our rimadyl chewable product. as a result, sales of our rimadyl chewable product in the u.s. have continued to decline, decreasing by approximately 8% in 2017 compared to the prior year. if animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. over the next several years, several of our products' patents will expire. the active ingredient of draxxin, tulathromycin, is covered by both compound and formulation patents in the united states, europe, canada, australia and other key markets, with terms that expire between may 2019 and january 2021 in the united states, between november 2018 and november 2020 in europe, and between may 2018 and november 2020 in canada and australia. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line (excede) began expiring in the united states in 2015. however, various formulation and use patents relevant to the product line extend through to 2024. the compound patent for selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticide revolution, expired in 2014. again, we have process and formulation patents covering this product which expire in important markets in 2018 and 2019, respectively. the ceftiofur product line, draxxin and revolution, contributed approximately 18% of our revenue in 2017. in addition, the patent for the active ingredient of convenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between november 2022 and october 2023. the patent for the active ingredient of cerenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between may 2020 and january 2027. a generic version of cerenia has recently been registered in europe and is marketed in the netherlands and france. the patent relating to the formulation of orbeseal expired in december 2017. zoetis typically enforces all of its patents. we may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses. we pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. we may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. in addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. we may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. we also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. we may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other 15 | table of contents alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient. these effects could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully implement our business strategies. we are pursuing, and will continue to pursue, strategic initiatives that management considers critical to our long-term success, including, but not limited to, increasing sales in emerging markets; operational revenue growth through new product development and value-added product lifecycle innovation; using cash flow from operations to service debt; and expanding our complementary products and services. we also have acquired or partnered with a number of smaller animal health businesses, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. there are significant risks involved with the execution of these initiatives, including significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. accordingly, we cannot predict whether we will succeed in implementing these strategic initiatives. it could take several years to realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, if any benefits are achieved at all. additionally, our business strategy may change from time to time, which could delay our ability to implement initiatives that we believe are important to our business. our business could be adversely affected by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages. some of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the united states. as a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenue and net income. we may also experience difficulty or delays in implementing changes to our workforce in certain markets. in addition, labor problems at our suppliers or cmos could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. loss of our executive officers or other key personnel could disrupt our operations. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and certain key personnel. our executive officers and other key personnel are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. in addition, we generally do not enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and other key personnel. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officer or other key positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. the loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers or other key personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. as of december 31, 2017 , we had goodwill of $ 1.5 billion and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $ 1.3 billion . identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents, acquired customer relationships and in-process r&amp;d. determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. the timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our consolidated statements of income and write-downs recorded in our consolidated balance sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. risks related to research and development our r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle innovations. our future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to r&amp;d, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties. we may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. in addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenue that are consistent with our expectations. the animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. furthermore, the timing and cost of our r&amp;d may increase, and our r&amp;d may become less predictable. for example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to research, develop and register products. products in the animal health industry are sometimes derived from molecules and compounds discovered or developed as part of human health research. we have and expect to continue to enter into collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties, including pfizer, to provide us with access to compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. if we are unable to access human health-generated molecules and compounds to conduct r&amp;d on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited. 16 | table of contents disruptive innovations and advances in veterinary medical practices and animal health technologies could negatively affect the market for our products. the market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including green or holistic health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. in addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our r&amp;d relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional restrictive regulations. as an animal health medicines and vaccines business, the evaluation of our existing and new products in animals is required to register our products. animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. to the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our r&amp;d, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. risks related to manufacturing manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs. in order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship our products in sufficient quantities. on december 31, 2017 , we had a global manufacturing network consisting of 25 manufacturing sites located in 12 countries. we also employ a network of approximately 180 third party cmos, including a number owned by pfizer. many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. minor deviations in our manufacturing or logistical processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. in addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers, including logistical service providers, to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines; construction delays; equipment malfunctions; shortages of materials; labor problems; natural disasters; power outages; criminal and terrorist activities; changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. these interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for example, our manufacturing site in medolla, italy was damaged in an earthquake in may 2012, which resulted in production interruptions at that site. in addition, we experienced challenges in manufacturing apoquel when it was initially launched in 2015 that impacted our ability to meet customer demand. as a result, we had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians could purchase and delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. the unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. in addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. we rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services, and are subject to increased labor and material costs and potential disruptions in supply. the materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. in addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products. we may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole or exclusive source of certain materials and services necessary for production of our products. we may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. 17 | table of contents there may be delays and additional costs due to changes to our existing manufacturing facilities and the construction of new manufacturing plants. as part of our supply network strategy, we have invested and will continue to invest in improvements to our existing manufacturing facilities and in new manufacturing plants. we are currently investing in two new plants, one in rathdrum, ireland for the production of active ingredients for some of our key products and one in suzhou, china for the research and production of vaccines in china. these types of projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, and will require licensure by various regulatory authorities. significant cost overruns or delays in completing these projects could have an adverse effect on the company's return on investment. risks related to legal matters and regulation we may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. these matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of united states and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, breach of contract and tort. in addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. for example, in the united states, attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. if such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. an adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. there may be increased risk of product liability claims if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. for example, ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is abused by humans as a hallucinogen. furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. if we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products or of stolen, diverted or relabeled products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products that do not meet the exacting standards of our development, manufacturing and distribution processes. counterfeit or illegally compounded medicines pose a significant risk to animal health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents. counterfeit or illegally compounded products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening to animals. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or illegally compounded products which are alleged to be equivalent and/or which are sold under our brand name. we are aware of at least one pharmacy in brazil that may be engaged in the practice of illegally compounding oclacitinib, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our apoquel product. in addition, products stolen or unlawfully diverted from inventory, warehouses, plants or while in transit, which are not properly stored or which have an expired shelf life and which have been repackaged or relabeled and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact animal health and safety, our reputation and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of vaccines and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, illegally compounding or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. our business is subject to substantial regulation. as a global company, we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of our products. in addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory agencies. an inspection may report conditions or practices that indicate possible violations of regulatory requirements. our failure to comply with these regulatory requirements, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in, among other things, inspection observation notices, warning letters or similar regulatory correspondence, fines, a partial or total shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while an alleged violation is remediated, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims. any one of these consequences could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. we have changed, and may in the future change, the locations of where certain of our products are manufactured and, because of these changes, we may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. 18 | table of contents furthermore, we cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, or changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the united states of income earned outside the united states. changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under cercla or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. see item 1. business environmental, health and safety . the costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. a failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. risks related to our international operations a significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business. our international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: volatility in the international financial markets; compliance with governmental controls; difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; parallel trade in our products (importation of our products from european union countries where our products are sold at lower prices into european union countries where the products are sold at higher prices); compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the fcpa and similar non-u.s. laws and regulations; compliance with foreign labor laws; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements; changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers, including the imposition of limits on our profitability; political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts; trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of treasury (ofac) and the european union, in relation to our products or the products of farmers and other customers (e.g., restrictions on the importation of agricultural products from the european union to russia); government limitations on foreign ownership; government takeover or nationalization of business; changes in tax laws, challenges brought against our incentive tax rulings, and tariffs; imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions; costs and difficulties in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations; longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk; and 19 | table of contents additional limitations on transferring personal information between countries or other restrictions on the processing of personal information. in addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. a failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. in addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized importation or unauthorized re-importation of our products between jurisdictions and may also result in the imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the european union, and this uncertainty may persist for years. a withdrawal could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union could also result in similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which we do business. on march 29, 2017, the united kingdom prime minister formally notified the european council of the united kingdom's intention to withdraw from the european union under article 50 of the treaty of lisbon. the notice begins the two-year negotiation period to establish the withdrawal terms. if no agreement is reached after two years, the united kingdom's separation still becomes effective, unless the remaining european union members unanimously agree to an extension. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and could affect sales or regulation of our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. finally, there has been recent political instability in catalonia, which depending on the outcome could impact our r&amp;d and manufacturing operations in olot, spain. foreign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. we conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. in 2017 , we generated approximately 47% of our revenue in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, brazilian real and canadian dollar. we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenue. in addition, because our financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. we also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. while we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or be unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. we currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including china, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. in 2015, we recorded a net remeasurement loss of $89 million on bolivar-denominated net monetary assets, primarily related to cash deposits in venezuela. this loss was recorded as a result of our evaluation of evolving economic conditions in venezuela, including the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in 2013 and the subsequent changes to venezuela's foreign currency exchange mechanisms, in addition to our expectation of venezuela's responses to changes in its economy, and continued volatility. we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets and are subject to certain risks due to our presence in emerging markets, including political or economic instability and failure to adequately comply with legal and regulatory requirements. we have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets. failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. for example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. in addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. for example, in the past, our revenue in certain emerging markets in latin america has been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, certain emerging markets have legal systems that are less developed or familiar to us. other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may have legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from united states laws and regulations, are continuously evolving or do not include sufficient judicial or administrative guidance to interpret such laws and regulations. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. in the event we believe or have reason to believe our employees have or may have violated applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to investigation costs, potential penalties and other related costs which in turn could negatively affect our reputation and our results of operations. 20 | table of contents for all these and other reasons, doing business within emerging markets carries significant risks. risks related to tax matters the company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or foreign tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. the multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. for example, the european commission opened formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in certain european countries, including belgium, comply with european union rules on state aid. in the case of belgium, the european commission concluded on january 11, 2016, that the excess profits ruling violates the european union's state aid rules. the impact of this conclusion was a net tax charge of approximately $35 million recorded in 2016. this net charge relates to the belgium government's recovery of benefits for the periods 2013 through 2015 offset by the remeasurement of the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities using the rates expected to be in place at the time of the reversal and without consideration of implementation of any future operational changes, and does not include any benefits associated with a successful appeal of the decision. in addition, on june 20, 2016, the member states of the european union adopted the anti-tax-avoidance directive proposed on january 28, 2016, which is designed to provide uniform implementation of base erosion and profits shifting measures and other minimum taxation standards across member states. the member states are required to implement all components of the directive by january 1, 2020. once enacted by the member states, the results of the directive could have an impact on our effective tax rate. in october 2016, the european union also introduced a proposal to impose a uniform set of rules on taxing corporate profits, known as the common consolidated corporate tax base. this proposal is in its early stages but may have an impact to our effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act) effective january 1, 2018. some notable provisions of the tax act include a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, and a change from a worldwide system with deferral to a territorial tax system, which includes a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, payable over eight years, on certain undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2017, the cumulative amount of non-u.s. undistributed earnings was approximately $4.5 billion, which includes an allocation of non-u.s. undistributed earnings as a result of the separation from pfizer on june 24, 2013. pursuant to the staff accounting bulletin published by the securities and exchange commission on december 22, 2017, addressing the challenges in accounting for the effects of the tax act in the period of enactment, companies must report provisional amounts for those specific income tax effects of the tax act for which the accounting is incomplete but a reasonable estimate can be determined. those provisional amounts will be subject to adjustment during a measurement period of up to one year from the enactment date. the company is currently in the process of evaluating the full impact of this new legislation on its consolidated financial statements, and in the fourth quarter of 2017 has recorded a provisional net charge of $212 million related to the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, partially offset by the remeasurement of the deferred tax assets and liabilities, as of the date of enactment, due to the reduction in the u.s. federal corporate tax rate. at this time, we are properly reflecting the provision for taxes on income using all current enacted global tax laws in every jurisdiction in which we operate. on march 29, 2017, united kingdom (uk) prime minister theresa may formally notified the european council of the uk's intention to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit , under article 50 of the treaty of lisbon. the notice begins the two-year negotiation period to establish the withdrawal terms. if no agreement is reached after two years, the uk's separation still becomes effective, unless the remaining european union members unanimously agree to an extension. at this time, the impact of brexit to our effective tax rate is uncertain. in addition, our effective tax rate is subject to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. the company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if the company's effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or other material foreign jurisdictions, or if the ultimate determination of the company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the company's operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property the alleged intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business. a third party may sue us or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. if we do not prevail in this type of dispute, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future. the costs of defending an intellectual property action are often substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such action. the intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not provide the right to practice the patented technology or develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. we cannot guarantee that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not 21 | table of contents obtain rights to intellectual property that, in the absence of a license, may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. if our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret, data protection, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. for example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. the validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. patent law reform in the united states and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights, or make such enforcement financially unattractive. for instance, u.s. court decisions in the recent years have led to u.s. patent and trademark office guidelines regarding inventions in the field of products isolated from nature and diagnostic methods which may influence future patenting strategy in these areas. a similar court decision in australia was issued recently with regard to the patentability of nucleic acids. such reforms could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property and/or limit our ability to patent our products in these jurisdictions. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. likewise, in the united states and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or re-label a product. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. many of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. the misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states, may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. in the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, or the cost of enforcing our intellectual property may outweigh the value of doing so; either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. risks related to information technology we depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems to manage our operations, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. system failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our customers, or delay our financial reporting. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we depend on third parties and applications on virtualized (cloud) infrastructure to operate and support our information systems. these third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. failure by these providers to adequately support our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 22 | table of contents assuming we are able to implement new systems successfully, all information systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if our information systems were to fail or be breached, such failure or breach could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised. we may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites. in many markets around the world, such as the united states and brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. the operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone or internet service or power outages; failures of the information systems that support our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation. we may be unable to adequately protect our information technology systems from cyber-attacks, breaches of security or misappropriation of data, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and subject us to significant financial and legal exposure. our reputation as a global leader in animal health and our reliance on complex information systems make us inherently vulnerable to malicious cyber intrusion and attack. cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. cyber-attacks could include wrongful conduct by hostile foreign governments, industrial espionage, the deployment of harmful malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, and other means to threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. in addition, despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromise of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information (including confidential business information, trade secrets and corporate strategic plans), defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. like other global companies, we have experienced threats to our data and information technology systems. to date, those threats have not had a material impact on our business operations or financial condition. however, although we devote resources to protect our information technology systems, we expect cyber-attacks to continue, and there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent information security breaches that would result in business, legal or reputational harm to us, or would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. if hackers or cyberthieves gain improper access to our technology systems, networks, or infrastructure, they may be able to access, steal, publish, delete, misappropriate, modify or otherwise disrupt access to confidential data. moreover, additional harm to customers could be perpetrated by third parties who are given access to the confidential data. a network disruption (including one resulting from a cyberattack) could cause an interruption or degradation of service as well as permit access, theft, publishing, deletion, misappropriation, or modification to or of confidential data. due to the evolving techniques used in cyberattacks to disrupt or gain unauthorized access to technology networks, we may not be able to anticipate or prevent such disruption or unauthorized access. the costs imposed on us as a result of a cyberattack or network disruption could be significant. among others, such costs could include increased expenditures on cyber security measures, litigation, fines, and sanctions, lost revenues from business interruption, and damage to the public's perception regarding our ability to keep our information secure. as a result, a cyberattack or network disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to adequately protect our stakeholders' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws. the protection of customer, employee, supplier and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, our customers, employees and suppliers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws, including the eu general data protection regulation (gdpr), could result in lost sales, remediation costs, and legal liability including severe penalties, regulatory action and reputational harm. for example, the eu's gdpr becomes effective may 25, 2018 and requires companies to meet new and enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the rights of data subjects to request correction or deletion of their personal data. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. despite our considerable efforts and investments in technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. in addition, the payment card industry (pci) is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in pci's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with pci security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. risks related to our indebtedness we have substantial indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $5.0 billion of total unsecured indebtedness outstanding. in addition, we have entered into an agreement 23 | table of contents for a five-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future. we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; impacting our effective tax rate; and increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. for example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with affiliates and incur priority indebtedness. our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including certain international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock. we may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes. upon the occurrence of a change of control of zoetis and a downgrade below investment grade by moody's investor services, inc. and standard &amp; poor's rating services, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. however, we may not have sufficient funds available at the time of the change of control to finance the required change of control offer or restrictions in our then-existing debt instruments will not allow such repurchases. our failure to purchase the senior notes as required under the indenture would result in a default under the indenture, which could have material adverse consequences for us and the holders of the senior notes. our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes. the credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs. 24 | table of contents risks related to our relationship with pfizer certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with pfizer. certain of our directors are employed or have been employed by pfizer or may own pfizer common stock, options to purchase pfizer common stock or other pfizer equity awards. certain of these holdings may be individually significant to these directors as compared with such director's total assets. these directors' positions at pfizer and the ownership of any pfizer equity or equity awards may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for pfizer than for us. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. on may 22, 2013, pfizer announced an exchange offer (the exchange offer) whereby pfizer shareholders could exchange a portion of pfizer common stock for zoetis common stock. the exchange offer was completed on june 24, 2013, resulting in the full separation of zoetis and the disposal of pfizer's entire ownership and voting interest in zoetis. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. these restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 3.250% senior notes due 2023. pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products. under the patent and know-how license agreement (pfizer as licensor) (the patent and know-how license agreement), pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. if we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. in addition, in circumstances where pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or, in limited instances, subject to pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. these limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time-consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. we are dependent on pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. under the patent and know-how license agreement, pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that pfizer licenses to us. in the animal health field, pfizer has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such licensed patents, and in the human health field, subject to certain exceptions, pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents. if pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under this agreement, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. if there is a later determination that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986 (the code). completion by pfizer of the exchange offer was conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of pfizer or us after the exchange offer. if the exchange offer or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment in zoetis common stock as a result. our common stock has a limited trading history and there may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our common stock as a result of many factors. from our ipo through december 31, 2017, the sales price of our common stock as reported by the nyse has ranged from a low sales price of $28.14 on april 15, 2014 to a high sales price of $73.58 on december 19, 2017. some factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section and in our 2017 annual report, are: our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; our or our competitors' press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; changes in our investor base; failures to meet external expectations or management guidance; 25 | table of contents fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; reputational issues; changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business; the arrival or departure of key personnel; the actions of speculators and financial arbitrageurs (such as hedge funds); changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and other developments or changes affecting us, our industry or our competitors. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. on december 11, 2017, our board of directors declared the 2018 first quarter dividend of $0.126 per share to be paid on march 1, 2018, to holders of record on january 19, 2018; and on february 13, 2018, our board of directors declared the 2018 second quarter dividend of $0.126 per share to be paid on june 1, 2018, to holders of record on april 20, 2018. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock. we anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows available in the united states, impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, and delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and our amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as our by-laws, contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. in addition, delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a significant portion of our revenue and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. in addition, our outstanding borrowings may be subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using certain financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. foreign exchange risk our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the australian dollar, brazilian real, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, euro, and u.k. pound. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenue in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. 56 | foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. our financial instruments at december 31, 2017 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined using level 2 inputs. for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 3. significant accounting policies: fair value . the sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency forward-exchange contracts at december 31, 2017 , indicates that if the u.s. dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $ 24 million , and if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $ 32 million . for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 9b. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments . interest rate risk our outstanding debt balances are fixed rate debt. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on our fixed rate debt, interest on our revolving credit facility will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2017 , we had no outstanding principal balance under our revolving credit facility. see notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. financial instruments . 57 | table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors risks related to operating in foreign jurisdictions . sales and marketing our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products. our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to provide information and to promote and sell our products and services. our technical and veterinary operations specialists, who generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees, provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use. these direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. as a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to human health. as of december 31, 2018 , our sales organization consisted of approximately 3,100 employees. our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. on a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through local agricultural and farming retail outlets, pharmacies and pet stores. we also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners. 6 | table of contents customers we sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork and poultry operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that then typically sell the products to livestock producers. we primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 13% and 7% , respectively, of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2018 , and no other customer represented more than 6% of our revenue for the same period. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine r&amp;d organization, research alliances and other operations focused on the development, registration and regulatory maintenance of our products. in addition, we have r&amp;d operations focused on diagnostics, data, digital and other technological innovation. we incurred r&amp;d expense of $ 432 million in 2018 , $ 382 million in 2017 and $ 376 million in 2016 . our r&amp;d efforts are comprised of more than 300 programs and reflect our commitment to develop better solutions. we create new insights for preventing and treating disease, and maximizing healthy performance, that result in the development of new platforms of knowledge which become the basis for continuous innovation. leveraging internal discoveries, complemented by diverse external research collaborations, results in the delivery of novel vaccine, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products to help our customers face their toughest challenges. while the development of new chemical and biological entities through new product r&amp;d plays a critical role in our growth strategies, a significant share of our r&amp;d investment (including regulatory functions) is focused on product lifecycle innovation. a commitment to continuous innovation, based on customer need, ensures we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. we also create opportunities to optimize solutions through our extensive capabilities in biodevice diagnostics and genetics research, ensuring we can help our customers predict, prevent, detect and treat a variety of conditions. we prioritize our r&amp;d spending on an annual basis with the goal of aligning our research and business objectives, and do not disaggregate our r&amp;d operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. we make our strategic investments in r&amp;d based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. a centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend. this view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. the allocation of our r&amp;d investment between product lifecycle innovation and new product development, in addition to our ability to leverage the discoveries of our existing r&amp;d and other industries, supports a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable r&amp;d process. we regularly enter into agreements with external parties that enable us to collaborate on research programs or gain access to substrates and technologies. some of our external partnerships involve funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. we are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental expertise for, as well as investment in, such external partnerships. depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models. as of december 31, 2018 , we employed approximately 1,100 employees in our global r&amp;d operations. our r&amp;d headquarters is located in kalamazoo, michigan. we have r&amp;d operations co-located with manufacturing sites in weibern, austria; louvain-la-neuve, belgium; campinas, brazil; suzhou, china; farum, denmark; olot, spain; union city, california; kalamazoo, michigan; durham, north carolina; and lincoln, nebraska, united states. we co-locate r&amp;d operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. in addition, we maintain r&amp;d operations in sydney, australia; zaventem, belgium; o paulo, brazil; beijing, china; and navi mumbai, india. we also maintain r&amp;d operations in suzhou, china; thanh binh, vietnam; hong ngu, vietnam; and oslo, norway, related to our acquisition of pharmaq. each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents, as appropriate. manufacturing and supply chain our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as cmos. we have a global manufacturing network of 25 sites. 7 | table of contents our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites: site location site location campinas brazil medolla italy catania italy melbourne australia charles city iowa, u.s. olot spain chicago heights illinois, u.s. overhalla norway durham north carolina, u.s. salisbury maryland, u.s. eagle grove iowa, u.s. san diego california, u.s. farum denmark suzhou china jilin china tallaght (a) ireland kalamazoo michigan, u.s. union city (b) california, u.s. klofta norway wellington new zealand lincoln nebraska, u.s. white hall illinois, u.s. london ontario, canada willow island west virginia, u.s. louvain-la-neuve belgium (a) in june 2018, zoetis acquired a manufacturing facility in tallaght, ireland where our teat sealant products are manufactured. (b) in july 2018, zoetis completed the acquisition of abaxis, a leading global provider of veterinary point-of-care diagnostic instruments. we own the majority of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in durham (u.s.), klofta (norway), london (canada), medolla (italy), melbourne (australia), san diego, california (u.s.) and union city, california (u.s.), which are leased sites. our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of cmos. as of december 31, 2018 , this network was comprised of approximately 172 cmos, including those centrally managed as well as local cmos. we select cmos based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) their access to niche products and technologies; (iii) capacity; and (iv) financial efficiency analyses. our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the cmos we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality. in addition to our global manufacturing network and our cmos, pfizer continues to manufacture products for us at three pfizer sites pursuant to a master manufacturing and supply agreement. we purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. we utilize logistics service providers as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support. we also have a leased site in tullamore (ireland) that we acquired in 2017 where we plan to begin commercial production in the near term. in addition, we are currently investing in a manufacturing facility in rathdrum (ireland) that we acquired in 2017, and in building a second manufacturing site in suzhou (china). both of these sites are owned by us, but are not yet ready for commercial production. we intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including six sigma and lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. we have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and cmo sites. as a result of a review of our global manufacturing and supply network, we have exited eight manufacturing sites since 2015. competition although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostics industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. our primary competitors include animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostic companies such as boehringer ingelheim animal health inc., the animal health division of boehringer ingelheim gmbh; merck animal health, the animal health division of merck &amp; co., inc.; elanco animal health, an independent animal health company as of september 2018, formerly the animal health division of eli lilly and company; bayer animal health, the animal health division of bayer ag, and idexx laboratories. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. in addition, we compete with hundreds of other producers of animal health products throughout the world. the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. for example, the level of generic competition is higher in europe and certain emerging markets than in the united states. unlike in the human health market, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. the reasons for this include the relatively smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. in addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians. the importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. as a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity. 8 | table of contents intellectual property our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. we rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate. our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 5,500 granted patents and 1,650 pending patent applications, filed in more than 60 countries, with a focus on our major markets, including australia, brazil, canada, china, europe, japan and the united states, as well as other countries with strong patent systems. many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our in-house research and development, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were wholly or partially developed by third parties and are licensed to zoetis. patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. the active ingredient of draxxin, tulathromycin, is covered by both compound and formulation patents in the united states, europe, canada, australia and other key markets, with terms that expire between may 2019 and january 2021 in the united states, between november 2018 and november 2020 in europe, and between may 2018 and november 2020 in canada and australia. generic tulathromycin products are marketed in countries such as columbia, vietnam, belarus and russia. recently marketing authorizations were granted in europe and there is a pending marketing authorization in australia. at this time, market entry by generic versions in the u.s. are not anticipated before january 2021. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line (excede) began expiring in the united states in 2015. however, various formulation and use patents relevant to the product line extend through to 2024. a generic version of excede has recently entered the swine market in mexico. at this time, the market entry of a generic version of excede in the u.s. is not anticipated before 2024. the compound patent for selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticide revolution, expired in 2014. again, we have formulation patents covering this product which expire in important markets in 2019. generic versions of selamectin are now authorized in europe, australia and south korea. the market entry of a generic version of selamectin is not anticipated in the u.s. before november 2019. the patent for the active ingredient of convenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between november 2022 and october 2023. the patent for the active ingredient of cerenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between may 2020 and january 2027. a generic version of cerenia has been registered in europe and is marketed in the european union. at this time, there is no indication of market entry of a generic version of cerenia in the u.s. zoetis typically enforces its patents whenever appropriate both within and outside the united states, including by filing infringement claims against other parties. additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement. following our separation from pfizer, pfizer licenses to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we license to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a perpetual license to use certain of pfizer's product name trademarks. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. we currently maintain more than 10,000 trademark applications and registrations in major regions, identifying goods and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals. regulatory the sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. to maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. in the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. united states united states food and drug administration (fda). the regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the united states is the center for veterinary medicine (cvm), housed within the fda. all manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. the fda's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a freedom of information summary. post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the cvm's surveillance and compliance group. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source. united states department of agriculture (usda). the regulatory body in the united states for veterinary vaccines is the usda. the usda's center for veterinary biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. all manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the virus serum toxin act. post-approval monitoring of products is required. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements. environmental protection agency (epa). the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides is the epa. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide 9 | table of contents authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. as a result of our acquisition of abaxis, inc., our product portfolio now includes human medical diagnostics, which are subject to regulation in the u.s. by the fda under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, including the 1976 medical device amendments and the quality system regulation, and the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of 1988, and by the department of health and human services office for civil rights under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996. outside the united states european union (eu). the european medicines agency (ema) is the centralized regulatory agency of the eu, located in london. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by healthcare companies seeking centralized approval for use in the eu. the agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. the committee for veterinary medicinal products (cvmp) is responsible for scientific and technical review of the submissions for innovative pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals and vaccines. after the cvmp issues a positive opinion on the approvability of a product, the eu commission reviews the opinion and, if they agree with the cvmp, they grant the product market authorization. once granted by the european commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all eu and european economic area-european free trade association states. products can also be registered in the eu via a decentralized route under the supervision of the co-ordination group for mutual recognition and decentralized procedures - veterinary (cmdv). this co-ordination group is composed of one representative per member state from each national regulatory agency, including norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the cmdv reviews submissions of pharmaceuticals and vaccines for authorization of a veterinary product in two or more member states in accordance with the mutual recognition or the decentralized procedure. a series of regulations, directives, guidelines and eu pharmacopeia monographs provide the requirements for product approval in the eu. in general, these requirements are similar to those in the united states, requiring demonstrated evidence of, safety, efficacy, and quality/consistency of manufacturing processes. we are also subject to the eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) that requires us to meet enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the rights of data subjects to request correction or deletion of their personal data. brazil. the ministry of agriculture, livestock production and supply (mapa) is the regulatory body in brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. mapa's regulatory activities are conducted through the secretary of agricultural defense and its livestock products inspection department. in addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the federal agriculture superintendence. these activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. mapa is one of the most active regulatory agencies in latin america, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as codex alimentarius, world organization for animal health and committee of veterinary medicines for the americas. mapa was also invited to be a latin american representative at meetings of the international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). several normative instructions issued by mapa have set regulatory trends in latin america. australia. the australian pesticides and veterinary medicines authority (apvma) is an australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the australian marketplace. previously each state and territory government had its own system of registration. the apvma assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the apvma's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. if the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the apvma will register the product. as well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the apvma reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job users expect and are safe to use. the apvma also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. the review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. in some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being canceled and the product taken off the market. rest of world. country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. with the exception of the eu, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the fda, usda, eu and other international animal health entities, including the world organization for animal health, codex alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines. global policy and guidance joint fao/who expert committee on food additives. the joint fao/who expert committee on food additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the world health organization (who). they provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. we work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. this in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain. advertising and promotion review. promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. these rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. we conduct a review of promotion materials for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products. 10 | table of contents food safety inspection service/generally recognized as safe. the fda is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including generally recognized as safe substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. however, although the fda has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the food safety and inspection service, the public health agency in the usda, still retains, under the tenets of the federal meat inspection act and the poultry products inspection act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine that new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products. international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). vich is a trilateral (eu-japan-usa) program aimed at harmonizing technical requirements for veterinary product registration. the objectives of the vich are as follows: establish and implement harmonized technical requirements for the registration of veterinary medicinal products in the vich regions, which meet high quality, safety and efficacy standards and minimize the use of test animals and costs of product development. provide a basis for wider international harmonization of registration requirements through the vich outreach forum. monitor and maintain existing vich guidelines, taking particular note of the ich work program and, where necessary, update these vich guidelines. ensure efficient processes for maintaining and monitoring consistent interpretation of data requirements following the implementation of vich guidelines. by means of a constructive dialogue between regulatory authorities and industry, provide technical guidance enabling response to significant emerging global issues and science that impact on regulatory requirements within the vich regions. employees as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately 10,000 employees worldwide, which included approximately 4,500 employees in the united states and approximately 5,500 in other jurisdictions. some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 50 union employees in the united states. environmental, health and safety we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. certain environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third-party sites or offsite disposal locations, or that currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. in addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. in connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2018 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows: environmental-related capital expenditures - approximately $5 million; and other environmental-related expenditures - approximately $15 million. however, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. such liability could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. in connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. we have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all. while we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. 11 | table of contents available information the company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. on our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance at zoetis and our board of directors, including as follows: our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; zoetis code of conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller); code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; board committees and committee charters; and ways to communicate by email with our directors. we will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our corporate secretary, zoetis inc., 10 sylvan way, parsippany, new jersey 07054. information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. we will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of these ethics policies and standards affecting our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable sec and nyse rules. we use our website (www.zoetis.com) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure promulgated by the sec. these disclosures are included in the investors and news &amp; media sections of our website. accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. the information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, a part of this 2018 annual report, or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our references to the urls for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 12 | table of contents item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information set forth in this 2018 annual report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. we generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, could, expect, intend, project, plan, predict, believe, seek, continue, outlook, "objective," "target," may, might, will, should, can have, likely or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events. in particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to our 2019 financial guidance, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, product supply disruptions, r&amp;d costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, anticipated timing of generic market entries, integration of acquired businesses, interest rates, tax rates, changes in tax regimes and laws, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans related to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. however, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. you should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business and industry animal health products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns. unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to animal health products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims. regulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product's sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results. in addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, qualify or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. these concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. our results of operations are dependent upon the success of our top products. if any of our top products experience issues, such as loss of patent protection, material product liability litigation, new or unexpected side effects, manufacturing disruptions, regulatory proceedings, labeling changes, negative publicity, changes to veterinarian or customer preferences, and/or disruptive innovations or the introduction of more effective products, our revenues could be negatively impacted, perhaps significantly. our top four products, apoquel, draxxin, the ceftiofur product line, and the revolution/stronghold line, contributed approximately 25% of our revenue in 2018. any issues with these top products would have a more significant impact to our results of operations. generic and other products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products. we face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. we depend on patents and regulatory data exclusivity periods to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. the extent of protection afforded by our patents varies from country to country and is limited by the scope of the claimed subject matter of our patents, the term of the patent and the availability and enforcement of legal remedies in the applicable country. as a result, we may face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products. generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of launching at risk before patent rights expire and, because of their pricing, are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. for example, several companies have launched generic versions of our rimadyl chewable product. as a result of generic and other competition, sales of our rimadyl chewable product in the u.s. have declined by approximately 29% in the years since their introduction. sales of our clavamox products in the u.s. also continue to be negatively impacted by generic competition. if animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 13 | table of contents over the next several years, several of our products' patents will expire. the active ingredient of draxxin, tulathromycin, is covered by both compound and formulation patents in the united states, europe, canada, australia and other key markets, with terms that expire between may 2019 and january 2021 in the united states, between november 2018 and november 2020 in europe, and between may 2018 and november 2020 in canada and australia. generic tulathromycin products are marketed in countries such as columbia, vietnam, belarus and russia. recently marketing authorizations were granted in europe and there is a pending marketing authorization in australia. at this time, market entry by generic versions in the u.s. are not anticipated before january 2021. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line (excede) began expiring in the united states in 2015. however, various formulation and use patents relevant to the product line extend through to 2024. a generic version of excede has recently entered the swine market in mexico. at this time, the market entry of a generic version of excede in the u.s. is not anticipated before 2024. the compound patent for selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticides revolution and stronghold, expired in 2014. again, we have formulation patents covering these products which expire in important markets in 2019. generic versions of selamectin are now authorized in europe, australia and south korea. the market entry of a generic version of selamectin is not anticipated in the u.s. before november 2019. the ceftiofur product line, draxxin and revolution/stronghold, contributed approximately 18% of our revenue in 2018. in addition, the patent for the active ingredient of convenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between november 2022 and october 2023. the patent for the active ingredient of cerenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between may 2020 and january 2027. a generic version of cerenia has been registered in europe and is marketed in the european union. at this time, there is no indication of market entry of a generic version of cerenia in the u.s. zoetis typically enforces its patents whenever appropriate both within and outside the united states, including by filing infringement claims against other parties. the animal health industry is highly competitive. the animal health industry is highly competitive. we believe many of our competitors are conducting r&amp;d activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. our competitors include standalone animal health businesses and the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. in certain markets, we also compete with companies that produce generic products, but the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. these competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. as a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. further, consolidation in the animal health industry could result in existing competitors realizing additional efficiencies or improving portfolio bundling opportunities, thereby potentially increasing their market share and pricing power, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and profitability and an increase in competition. in addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines and vaccines industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. to the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us. disruptive innovations and advances in medical practices and technologies could negatively affect the market for our products. the market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including green or holistic health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. in addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. consolidation of our customers and distributors could negatively affect the pricing of our products. veterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. in recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. in addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, and our distributors, have seen consolidation in their industries. furthermore, we have seen the expansion of larger cross-border corporate customers and an increase in the consolidation of buying groups (cooperatives of veterinary practices that leverage volume to pursue discounts from manufacturers). the pace of consolidation and structure of markets varies greatly across geographies. if these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers and distributors could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. the resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products. in most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. companion animal owners increasingly have the option to purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. this trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years. companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on internet-based animal health information. because we market our companion animal prescription products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. legislation has also been proposed in the united states in the past, and may be proposed in the united states or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. for example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet 14 | table of contents owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the american veterinary medical association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice. over time, these and other competitive conditions may increase our reliance on internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. we may be unable to sustain our current margins and we may not be adequately prepared or able to distribute our products if an increased portion of our sales is through these channels. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses. we pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. we may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. in addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. we may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. we also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. we may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient. these effects could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. restrictions and bans on the use of and consumer preferences regarding antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent. the issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterial resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, continue to be the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. in some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). these restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. our total revenue attributable to antibacterials for livestock was approximately $1.3 billion for the year ended december 31, 2018 . for example, in december 2013, the fda announced final guidance establishing procedures for the voluntary phase-out in the united states over a three-year period of the use of medically important antibacterials in animal feed for growth promotion in food production animals (medically important antibacterials include classes that are prescribed in animal and human health). the guidance provides for continued use of antibacterials in food producing animals for treatment, control and under certain circumstances for prevention of disease, all under the supervision of a veterinarian. the fda indicated that it took this action to help preserve the efficacy of medically important antibacterials to treat infections in humans. as part of those efforts, stricter regulations governing the administration of medically important antibiotics are now effective. the use of medically important antibiotics in the water or feed of food production animals now requires written authorization by a licensed veterinarian under the fda guidance and the related rule known as the veterinary feed directive. two new veterinary medicines regulations in the eu were adopted in november 2018 and provide additional restrictions on the use of antibiotics in the eu. the regulations will be fully implemented by the end of 2021. in addition, other countries, such as france, germany and vietnam, have passed restrictions or bans on antibiotic use. in certain markets, there has been an increase in consumer preference towards proteins produced without the use of antibiotics. we cannot predict whether antibacterial resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations, public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals or increased consumer preference for antibiotic-free protein, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. perceived adverse effects on human health linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products could cause a decline in the sales of such products. our livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. if the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. for example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition, health-related or other concerns. any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions. macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. certain of our customers and suppliers could be affected directly by an economic downturn and could face credit issues or cash flow problems that could give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. if one or more of our large customers, including distributors, discontinue their relationship 15 | table of contents with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. furthermore, our exposure to credit and collectability risk is higher in certain international markets and our ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit and collectability risk, there can be no assurances such procedures will effectively limit such risk and avoid losses. increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products. companies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. if livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, new or more stringent regulations could, directly or indirectly, impact the use of one or more of our products. more stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products. an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products. sales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. in addition, outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. in recent years, outbreaks of various diseases, including african swine fever, avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as bse or mad cow disease) and porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (otherwise known as pedv), have impacted the animal health business. the discovery of additional cases of any of these, or new, diseases may result in additional restrictions on animal proteins, reduced herd sizes, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. our business may be negatively affected by weather conditions and the availability of natural resources. the animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in particular regions are affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. as a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. in addition, veterinary hospitals and practitioners depend on visits from and access to animals under their care. veterinarians' patient volume and ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience prolonged snow, ice or other weather conditions, particularly in regions not accustomed to sustained inclement weather. furthermore, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. in the event of adverse weather conditions or a shortage of fresh water, veterinarians or livestock producers may purchase less of our products. severe droughts can lead to a decrease in harvested corn and higher corn prices, which may impact the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock sizes that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. in addition, droughts can lead to reduced availability of grazing pastures, forcing cattle producers to cull their herds. fewer heads of cattle could result in reduced demand for our products. a prolonged drought could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. heat waves may cause stress in animals and lead to increased vulnerability to disease, reduced fertility rates and reduced milk production. in addition, climate change may increase the prevalence of parasites and diseases that affect food animals. adverse weather conditions may also have a material impact on the aquaculture business. changes in water temperatures could affect the timing of reproduction and growth of various fish species, as well as trigger the outbreak of certain water borne diseases. modification of foreign trade policy by the u.s. or foreign countries or the imposition of tariffs on u.s. or foreign goods may harm our business. changes in u.s. laws, agreements and policies governing foreign trade in the territories and countries where our customers do business could negatively impact such customers' businesses and adversely affect our operating results. a number of our customers, particularly u.s.-based livestock producers, benefit from free trade agreements such as the north american free trade agreement (nafta). the u.s., canada and mexico reached an agreement to replace nafta with the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca). most provisions of the usmca will not begin until 2020. these new provisions, as well as any other changes to international trade agreements or policies could harm our customers, and as a result, negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in response to new u.s. tariffs affecting foreign exports, some foreign governments, including china, have instituted or are considering instituting tariffs on certain u.s. goods. while the scope and duration of these and any future tariffs remains uncertain, tariffs imposed by the u.s. or foreign governments on our products or the active pharmaceutical ingredients or other components thereof could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. 16 | table of contents our business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income. feed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. these shifts could result in a decrease in sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership. our business could be adversely affected by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages. some of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the united states. as a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenue and net income. we may also experience difficulty or delays in implementing changes to our workforce in certain markets. in addition, labor problems at our suppliers, cmos or other service providers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. loss of our executive officers or other key personnel could disrupt our operations. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and certain key personnel. our executive officers and other key personnel are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. in addition, we generally do not enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and other key personnel. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officers or other key positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. the loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers or other key personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. as of december 31, 2018 , we had goodwill of $ 2.5 billion and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $ 2.0 billion . identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents, acquired customer relationships and in-process r&amp;d. determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. the timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our consolidated statements of income and write-downs recorded in our consolidated balance sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. risks related to research and development our r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle innovations. our future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to r&amp;d, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties. we may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. in addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenue that are consistent with our expectations. the animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. furthermore, the timing and cost of our r&amp;d may increase, and our r&amp;d may become less predictable. for example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to research, develop and register products. if we are unable to generate new products or expand the use of our existing products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. products in the animal health industry are sometimes derived from molecules and compounds discovered or developed as part of human health research. we have and expect to continue to enter into collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties, including pfizer, to provide us with access to compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. if we are unable to access human health-generated molecules and compounds to conduct r&amp;d on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited. our r&amp;d relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional restrictive regulations. as an animal health medicines and vaccines business, the evaluation of our existing and new products in animals is required to register our products. animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. to the extent that the activities of such 17 | table of contents organizations and individuals are successful, our r&amp;d, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. risks related to manufacturing manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs. in order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship our products in sufficient quantities. on december 31, 2018 , we had a global manufacturing network consisting of 25 manufacturing sites located in 12 countries. we also employ a network of approximately 172 third party cmos. many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. minor deviations in our manufacturing or logistical processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. in addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers, including logistical service providers, to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines, including any changes to good manufacturing practices (gmp); mislabeling; construction delays; equipment malfunctions; shortages of materials; labor problems; delays in receiving any required governmental authorizations, including as a result of any prolonged shutdown of the u.s. government; natural disasters; power outages; criminal and terrorist activities; changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. these interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for example, we experienced challenges in manufacturing apoquel when it was initially launched in 2015 that impacted our ability to meet customer demand. as a result, we had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians could purchase and delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. the unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. in addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. we rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services, and are subject to increased labor and material costs and potential disruptions in supply. the materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. in addition, labor costs may be subject to volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products, result in product delivery delays or shortages, and impact our ability to launch new products on a timely basis or at all. we may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole or exclusive source of certain materials and services necessary for production of our products. we may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. there may be delays and additional costs due to changes to our existing manufacturing facilities and the construction of new manufacturing plants. as part of our supply network strategy, we have invested and will continue to invest in improvements to our existing manufacturing facilities and in new manufacturing plants. we are currently investing in two new plants, one in rathdrum, ireland for the production of active ingredients for some of our key products and one in suzhou, china for the research and production of vaccines in china. in addition, certain of our existing manufacturing facilities are in the process of being upgraded. these types of projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, and will require licensure by various regulatory authorities. significant cost overruns or delays in completing these projects could have an adverse effect on the company's return on investment. 18 | table of contents risks related to legal matters and regulation our business is subject to substantial regulation. as a global company, we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of our products. in addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory agencies. an inspection may report conditions or practices that indicate possible violations of regulatory requirements. our failure, or the failure of third parties we rely on, including cmos, to comply with these regulatory requirements, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in, among other things, inspection observation notices, warning letters or similar regulatory correspondence, fines, a partial or total shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while an alleged violation is remediated, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims. any one of these consequences could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. we have changed, and may in the future change, the locations of where certain of our products are manufactured and, because of these changes, we may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, including any delays resulting from any prolonged shutdown of the u.s. government, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. furthermore, we cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, or changes in tax laws and tariffs, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the united states of income earned outside the united states. changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. these matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of united states and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, breach of contract and tort. in addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. for example, in the united states, attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. if such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. an adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. there may be increased risk of product liability claims if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. for example, ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is abused by humans as a hallucinogen. furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. if we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products or of stolen, diverted or relabeled products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products that do not meet the exacting standards of our development, manufacturing and distribution processes. counterfeit or illegally compounded medicines pose a significant risk to animal health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents. counterfeit or illegally compounded products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening to animals. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or illegally compounded products which are alleged to be equivalent and/or which are sold under our brand name. we are aware of at least one pharmacy in brazil that may be engaged in the practice of illegally compounding oclacitinib, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our apoquel product. in addition, products stolen or unlawfully diverted from inventory, warehouses, plants or while in transit, which are not properly stored or which have an expired shelf life and which have been repackaged or relabeled and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact animal health and safety, our reputation and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of vaccines and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, illegally compounding or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. 19 | table of contents we are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under cercla or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. see item 1. business environmental, health and safety . the costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. a failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. risks related to operating in foreign jurisdictions a significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions, including jurisdictions presenting a high risk of bribery and corruption, and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business. our international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: volatility in the international financial markets; compliance with governmental controls; difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; parallel trade in our products (importation of our products from european union countries where our products are sold at lower prices into european union countries where the products are sold at higher prices); compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the fcpa and similar non-u.s. laws and regulations; compliance with foreign labor laws; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements; changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers, including the imposition of limits on our profitability; political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts; trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of treasury (ofac) and the european union, in relation to our products or the products of farmers and other customers (e.g., restrictions on the importation of agricultural products from the european union to russia); government limitations on foreign ownership; government takeover or nationalization of business; changes in tax laws and tariffs; imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions; costs and difficulties and compliance risks in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations, including the use of overseas third-party goods and service providers; corruption risk inherent in business arrangements and regulatory contacts with foreign government entities; longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk; and additional limitations on transferring personal information between countries or other restrictions on the processing of personal information. in addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. a failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. in addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized 20 | table of contents importation or unauthorized re-importation of our products between jurisdictions and may also result in the imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom (uk) approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, particularly in the united kingdom and the european union, and this uncertainty may persist for years. a withdrawal without a trade agreement in place could significantly disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between the united kingdom and the european union, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. additional brexit-related impacts on our business could include potential inventory shortages in the uk, increased regulatory burdens and costs to comply with uk-specific regulations and higher transportation costs for our products coming into and out of the uk. the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union could also result in similar referendums or votes in other european countries in which we do business. on march 29, 2017, united kingdom prime minister theresa may formally notified the european council of the uk's intention to withdraw from the european union under article 50 of the treaty of lisbon. the notice began the two-year negotiation period to establish the withdrawal terms. while no agreement has yet been reached, the uk's separation will still become effective on march 29, 2019, unless the remaining european union members unanimously agree to an extension. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the united kingdom's withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and could affect sales or regulation of our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. foreign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. we conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. in 2018 , we generated approximately 47% of our revenue in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, brazilian real, chinese renminbi, canadian dollar, australian dollar, and u.k. pound. we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenue. in addition, because our financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. we also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. while we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or be unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. we currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including china, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, in 2015, we recorded a net remeasurement loss of $89 million on bolivar-denominated net monetary assets, primarily related to cash deposits in venezuela, as a result of our evaluation of evolving economic conditions in venezuela, including the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in 2013. we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets and are subject to certain risks due to our presence in emerging markets, including political or economic instability and failure to adequately comply with legal and regulatory requirements. we have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets. failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. for example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. in addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. for example, in the past, our revenue in certain emerging markets in latin america has been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, certain emerging markets have legal systems that are less developed or familiar to us. other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may have legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from united states laws and regulations, are continuously evolving or do not include sufficient judicial or administrative guidance to interpret such laws and regulations. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. in the event we believe or have reason to believe our employees have or may have violated applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to investigation costs, potential penalties and other related costs which in turn could negatively affect our reputation and our results of operations. for all these and other reasons, doing business within emerging markets carries significant risks. risks related to tax matters the company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or foreign tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. the multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. 21 | table of contents for example, on june 20, 2016, the member states of the european union adopted the anti-tax-avoidance directive proposed on january 28, 2016, which is designed to provide uniform implementation of base erosion and profits shifting measures and other minimum taxation standards across member states. the member states are required to implement all components of the directive by january 1, 2020. once enacted by the member states, the results of the directive could have an impact on our effective tax rate. in october 2016, the european union also introduced a proposal to impose a uniform set of rules on taxing corporate profits, known as the common consolidated corporate tax base. this proposal is still under consideration and may have an impact to our effective tax rate, if enacted. on march 29, 2017, united kingdom (uk) prime minister theresa may formally notified the european council of the uk's intention to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit , under article 50 of the treaty of lisbon. the notice began the two-year negotiation period to establish the withdrawal terms. while no agreement has yet been reached, the uk's separation will still become effective on march 29, 2019, unless the remaining european union members unanimously agree to an extension. at this time, the impact of brexit to our effective tax rate remains uncertain. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act) effective january 1, 2018. some notable provisions of the tax act include a reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, and a change from a worldwide system with deferral to a territorial tax system, which includes a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, payable over eight years, on certain undistributed earnings of non-u.s. subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2018, the cumulative amount of non-u.s. undistributed earnings was approximately $5.1 billion, which includes an allocation of non-u.s. undistributed earnings as a result of the separation from pfizer on june 24, 2013. the company evaluated the full impact of this new legislation on its consolidated financial statements, and in the fourth quarter of 2017 recorded a provisional net charge of $212 million related to the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, partially offset by the remeasurement of the deferred tax assets and liabilities, as of the date of enactment, due to the reduction in the u.s. federal corporate tax rate. a measurement-period adjustment was recorded in 2018 as a decrease to income tax expense of $45 million. at this time, we are properly reflecting the provision for taxes on income using all current enacted global tax laws in every jurisdiction in which we operate. in addition, our effective tax rate is subject to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. the company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if the company's effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the united states or other material foreign jurisdictions, or if the ultimate determination of the company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the company's operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property the alleged intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business. a third party may sue us, our distributors or licensors, or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. if we do not prevail in this type of dispute, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future. the costs of defending an intellectual property action are often substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such action. moreover, even if we believe that we do not infringe a validly existing third-party patent, we may choose to license such patent, which would result in associated costs and obligations. we may also incur costs in connection with an obligation to compensate a distributor, licensor or other third party. the intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not provide the right to practice the patented technology or to develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. we cannot guarantee that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not obtain rights to intellectual property that, in the absence of a license, may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. if our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret, data protection, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. our currently pending and granted patents may be challenged in inter partes review or opposition proceedings. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the valid scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. for example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. we may be subject to challenges by third parties 22 | table of contents regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. the validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings that differ between jurisdictions. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. changes in patent law and practice in the united states and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights, or make such enforcement financially unattractive. for instance, u.s. court decisions continue to influence changes to u.s. patent and trademark office guidelines regarding inventions in the field of products isolated from nature and diagnostic methods which may influence future patenting strategy in these areas. a similar court decision was issued in australia with regard to the patentability of nucleic acids. patent law reforms and new case law could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property and/or limit our ability to adequately patent our products. additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. likewise, in the united states and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or re-label a product. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. many of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. the misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the united states, may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. in the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, or the cost of enforcing our intellectual property may outweigh the value of doing so; either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. risks related to information technology we may be unable to adequately protect our information technology systems from cyber-attacks, breaches of security or misappropriation of data, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and subject us to significant financial and legal exposure. our reputation as a global leader in animal health and our reliance on complex information systems make us inherently vulnerable to malicious cyber intrusion and attack. cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. cyber-attacks could include wrongful conduct by hostile foreign governments, industrial espionage, the deployment of harmful malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, and other means to threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. in addition, despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we (or our third party partners) may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromise of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information (including confidential business information, trade secrets, intellectual property and corporate strategic plans), defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. like other global companies, we have experienced threats to our data and information technology systems. to date, those threats have not had a material impact on our business operations or financial condition. however, although we devote resources to protect our information technology systems, we expect cyber-attacks to continue, and there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent information security breaches that would result in business, legal or reputational harm to us, or would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. if hackers or cyberthieves gain improper access to our technology systems, networks, or infrastructure, they may be able to access, steal, publish, delete, misappropriate, modify or otherwise disrupt access to confidential data. moreover, additional harm to customers could be perpetrated by third parties who are given access to the confidential data. a network disruption (including one resulting from a cyberattack) could cause an interruption or degradation of service as well as permit access, theft, publishing, deletion, misappropriation, or modification to or of confidential data. due to the evolving techniques used in cyberattacks to disrupt or gain unauthorized access to technology networks, we may not be able to anticipate or prevent such disruption or unauthorized access. the costs imposed on us as a result of a cyberattack or network disruption could be significant. among others, such costs could include increased expenditures on cyber security measures, litigation, regulatory investigations, fines, and sanctions, lost revenues from business interruption, damage to the public's perception regarding our ability to keep our information secure and significant remediation costs. as a result, a cyberattack or network disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to adequately protect our stakeholders' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws. 23 | table of contents the protection of customer, employee, supplier and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, our customers, employees and suppliers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws, including the eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) and the health insurance portability and accountability act, could result in lost sales, remediation costs, and legal liability including severe penalties, regulatory action and reputational harm. for example, the eu's gdpr became effective on may 25, 2018 and requires companies to meet new and enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the rights of data subjects to request correction or deletion of their personal data. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. despite our considerable efforts and investments in technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. in addition, the payment card industry (pci) is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in pci's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with pci security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems to manage our operations, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. system failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our customers, or delay our financial reporting. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we depend on third parties and applications on virtualized (cloud) infrastructure to operate and support our information systems. these third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. failure by these providers to adequately support our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. all information systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if our information systems were to fail or be breached, such failure or breach could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised. we may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites. in many markets around the world, such as the united states and brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. the operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone or internet service or power outages; failures of the information systems that support our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation. risks related to our indebtedness we have substantial indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $6.4 billion of total unsecured indebtedness outstanding. in addition, we currently have agreements for a multi-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program, each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future. we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; impacting our effective tax rate; and 24 | table of contents increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. for example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with affiliates and incur priority indebtedness. our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. we also have outstanding floating rate notes due 2021 (the 2021 floating rate notes ) that have their interest rate calculated quarterly using three-month libor. the u.k. financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021, and it appears likely that libor will be discontinued or modified by 2021. the discontinuance or modification of libor, the introduction of alternative reference rates or other reforms to libor could cause the interest rate calculated on our 2021 floating rate notes to be materially different than expected. in addition, if interest rates in general continue to rise, our interest expense related to the 2021 floating rate notes will increase. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including certain international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock. we may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes. upon the occurrence of a change of control of zoetis and a downgrade below investment grade by moody's investor services, inc. and standard &amp; poor's rating services, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. however, we may not have sufficient funds available at the time of the change of control to finance the required change of control offer or restrictions in our then-existing debt instruments will not allow such repurchases. our failure to purchase the senior notes as required under the indenture would result in a default under the indenture, which could have material adverse consequences for us and the holders of the senior notes. our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes. the credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs. risks related to our relationship with pfizer certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with pfizer. certain of our directors are employed or have been employed by pfizer or may own pfizer common stock, options to purchase pfizer common stock or other pfizer equity awards. certain of these holdings may be individually significant to these directors as compared with such director's total assets. these directors' positions at pfizer and the ownership of any pfizer equity or equity awards may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for pfizer than for us. pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products. 25 | table of contents under the patent and know-how license agreement (pfizer as licensor) (the patent and know-how license agreement), pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. if we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. in addition, in circumstances where pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or, in limited instances, subject to pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. these limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time-consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. we are dependent on pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. under the patent and know-how license agreement, pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that pfizer licenses to us. in the animal health field, pfizer has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such licensed patents, and in the human health field, subject to certain exceptions, pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents. if pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under this agreement, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. on may 22, 2013, pfizer announced an exchange offer (the exchange offer) whereby pfizer shareholders could exchange a portion of pfizer common stock for zoetis common stock. the exchange offer was completed on june 24, 2013, resulting in the full separation of zoetis and the disposal of pfizer's entire ownership and voting interest in zoetis. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. these restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 3.250% senior notes due 2023. if there is a later determination that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986 (the code). completion by pfizer of the exchange offer was conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of pfizer or us after the exchange offer. if the exchange offer or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment in zoetis common stock as a result. our common stock has a limited trading history and there may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our common stock as a result of many factors. from our ipo through december 31, 2018, the sales price of our common stock as reported by the nyse has ranged from a low sales price of $28.14 on april 15, 2014 to a high sales price of $96.57 on november 1, 2018. some factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section and in our 2018 annual report, are: our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; our or our competitors' press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; changes in our investor base; failures to meet external expectations or management guidance; fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; reputational issues; changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business; the arrival or departure of key personnel; the actions of speculators and financial arbitrageurs (such as hedge funds); changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and 26 | table of contents other developments or changes affecting us, our industry or our competitors. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. on december 12, 2018, our board of directors declared the 2019 first quarter dividend of $0.164 per share to be paid on march 1, 2019, to holders of record on january 18, 2019; and on february 12, 2019, our board of directors declared the 2019 second quarter dividend of $0.164 per share to be paid on june 3, 2019, to holders of record on april 18, 2019. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock. we anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, cash flows available in the united states, impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, and delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and our amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as our by-laws, contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. in addition, delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests. 27 | table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a significant portion of our revenue and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. in addition, our outstanding borrowings may be subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using certain financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. foreign exchange risk our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the australian dollar, brazilian real, canadian dollar, chinese renminbi, euro, and u.k. pound. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenue in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. our financial instrument holdings at december 31, 2018 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined using level 2 inputs. for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 3. significant accounting policies: fair value . the sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency forward-exchange contracts at december 31, 2018 , indicates that if the u.s. dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $ 20 million , and if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $ 24 million . for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 9c. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments . interest rate risk our outstanding debt balances are predominantly fixed rate debt. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on our fixed rate debt, interest on our $300 million aggregate principal amount of 2018 floating rate senior notes due 2021, as well as interest on our commercial paper and revolving credit facility will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. at december 31, 2018 , there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding and no outstanding principal balance under our revolving credit facility. see notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. financial instruments . 59 | table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors risks related to operating in foreign jurisdictions . sales and marketing our sales organization includes sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists. in markets where we do not have a direct commercial presence, we generally contract with distributors that provide logistics and sales and marketing support for our products. our sales representatives visit our customers, including veterinarians and livestock producers, to provide information and to promote and sell our products and services. our technical and veterinary operations specialists, who generally have advanced veterinary medicine degrees, provide scientific consulting focused on disease management and herd management, training and education on diverse topics, including responsible product use. these direct relationships with customers allow us to understand the needs of our customers. additionally, our sales representatives and technical and veterinary operations specialists partner with customers to provide training and support in areas of disease awareness and treatment protocols, including through the use of our products. as a result of these relationships, our sales and consulting visits are typically longer, more meaningful and 6 | table of contents provide us with better access to customer decision makers as compared to those in human health. as of december 31, 2019 , our sales organization consisted of approximately 3,200 employees. our livestock and companion animal products are primarily available by prescription through a veterinarian. on a more limited basis, in certain markets, we sell certain products through retail and e-commerce outlets. we also market our products by advertising to veterinarians, livestock producers and pet owners. customers we sell our livestock products directly to a diverse set of livestock producers, including beef and dairy farmers as well as pork and poultry operations, and to veterinarians, third-party veterinary distributors and retail outlets that then typically sell the products to livestock producers. we primarily sell our companion animal products to veterinarians or to third-party veterinary distributors that typically then sell our products to veterinarians, and in each case veterinarians then typically sell our products to pet owners. our two largest customers, both distributors, represented approximately 15% and 6% , respectively, of our revenue for the year ended december 31, 2019 , and no other customer represented more than 6% of our revenue for the same period. research and development our research and development (r&amp;d) operations are comprised of a dedicated veterinary medicine r&amp;d organization, external alliances and other operations focused on the development, registration and regulatory maintenance of our products. in addition, we have r&amp;d operations focused on diagnostics, devices, data, digital and other technological innovation. we incurred r&amp;d expense of $457 million in 2019 , $432 million in 2018 and $382 million in 2017 . our r&amp;d efforts are comprised of more than 300 programs and reflect our commitment to develop better solutions. we create new insights for predicting, preventing, detecting and treating health conditions that result in the development of new platforms of knowledge which become the basis for continuous innovation. leveraging internal discoveries, complemented by diverse external research collaborations, results in the delivery of novel vaccine, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical biodevice and diagnostic products to help our customers face their toughest challenges. while the development of new chemical, biopharmaceutical and biological entities through new product r&amp;d plays a critical role in our growth strategies, a significant share of our r&amp;d investment (including regulatory functions) is focused on product lifecycle innovation. a commitment to continuous innovation, based on customer need, ensures we actively work to broaden the value of existing products by developing claims in additional species, more convenient formulations, routes of administration and combinations, and by expanding usage into more countries. we also create opportunities by integrating product offerings to optimize solutions based on the totality of customer need. we prioritize our r&amp;d spending on an annual basis with the goal of aligning our research and business objectives, and do not disaggregate our r&amp;d operations by research stage or by therapeutic area for purposes of managing our business. we make our strategic investments in r&amp;d based on four criteria: strategic fit and importance to our current portfolio; technical feasibility of development and manufacture; return on investment; and the needs of customers and the market. a centralized portfolio management function links development plans with financial systems to build a comprehensive view of the status of project progression and spend. this view facilitates our ability to set targets for project timing and goals for investment efficiency. the allocation of our r&amp;d investment between product lifecycle innovation and new product development, in addition to our ability to leverage the discoveries of our existing r&amp;d and other industries, supports a cost-effective, efficient, sustainable and relatively predictable r&amp;d process. we regularly enter into agreements with external parties that enable us to collaborate on research programs or gain access to substrates and technologies (such as new devices). some of our external partnerships involve funding from a non-governmental organization or a government grant. we are generally responsible for providing technical direction and supplemental expertise for, as well as investment in, such external partnerships. depending on the nature of the agreement, we may act as the commercialization partner for discoveries that originate during the period of collaborative research, or we may own or have exclusive rights to any intellectual property that enables the development of proprietary products or models. as of december 31, 2019 , we employed approximately 1,100 employees in our global r&amp;d operations. our r&amp;d headquarters is located in kalamazoo, michigan. we have r&amp;d operations co-located with manufacturing sites in weibern, austria; louvain-la-neuve, belgium; campinas, brazil; suzhou, china; farum, denmark; olot, spain; union city, california; kalamazoo, michigan; durham, north carolina; and lincoln, nebraska, u.s. we co-locate r&amp;d operations with manufacturing sites to facilitate the efficient transfer of production processes from our laboratories to manufacturing. in addition, we maintain r&amp;d operations in sydney, australia; zaventem, belgium; o paulo, brazil; beijing, china; navi mumbai, india; oslo, norway; hong ngu, vietnam; and thanh binh, vietnam. each site is designed to meet the regulatory requirements for working with chemical or infectious disease agents, as appropriate. manufacturing and supply chain our products are manufactured at both sites operated by us and sites operated by third-party contract manufacturing organizations, which we refer to as cmos. we have a global manufacturing network of 27 sites. 7 | table of contents our global manufacturing network is comprised of the following sites: site location site location buellton (a) california, u.s. medolla italy campinas brazil melbourne australia catania italy olot spain charles city iowa, u.s. overhalla norway chicago heights illinois, u.s. salisbury maryland, u.s. durham north carolina, u.s. san diego california, u.s. eagle grove iowa, u.s. suzhou china farum denmark tallaght ireland jilin china union city california, u.s. kalamazoo michigan, u.s. weibern austria klofta norway wellington new zealand lincoln nebraska, u.s. white hall illinois, u.s. london ontario, canada willow island west virginia, u.s. louvain-la-neuve belgium (a) in august 2019, zoetis completed the acquisition of platinum performance, a leading nutrition-focused animal health business. we own the majority of these sites, with the exception of our facilities in buellton, california (u.s.), durham, north carolina (u.s.), klofta (norway), london (canada), medolla (italy), melbourne (australia), san diego, california (u.s.), union city, california (u.s.) and weibern (austria), which are leased sites. we also have a leased site in tullamore (ireland) that we acquired in 2017 where we plan to begin commercial production in the near term. in addition, we are currently investing in a manufacturing facility in rathdrum (ireland) that we acquired in 2017, and in building a second manufacturing site in suzhou (china). both of these sites are owned by us but are not yet ready for commercial production. our global manufacturing and supply chain is supported by a network of cmos. as of december 31, 2019 , this network was comprised of 147 cmos, including those centrally managed as well as local cmos. we select cmos based on several factors: (i) their ability to reliably supply products or materials that meet our quality standards at an optimized cost; (ii) their access to niche products and technologies; (iii) capacity; and (iv) financial efficiency analyses. our regional and global manufacturing teams seek to ensure that all of the cmos we use adhere to our standards of manufacturing quality. we purchase certain raw materials necessary for the commercial production of our products from a variety of third-party suppliers. we utilize logistics service providers as a part of our global supply chain, primarily for shipping and logistics support. we intend to continue our efficiency improvement programs in our manufacturing and supply chain organization, including six sigma and lean capabilities, which are processes intended to improve manufacturing efficiency. we have strong globally managed and coordinated quality control and quality assurance programs in place at our global manufacturing network sites, and we regularly inspect and audit our global manufacturing network and cmo sites. as a result of a review of our global manufacturing and supply network, we have exited 8 manufacturing sites since 2015. competition although our business is the largest based on revenue in the animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostics industry, we face competition in the regions in which we compete. principal drivers of competition vary depending on the particular region, species, product category and individual product, and include new product development, quality, price, service and promotion to veterinary professionals, pet owners and livestock producers. our primary competitors include animal health medicines, vaccines and diagnostic companies such as boehringer ingelheim animal health inc., the animal health division of boehringer ingelheim gmbh; merck animal health, the animal health division of merck &amp; co., inc.; elanco animal health; idexx laboratories; and bayer animal health, the animal health division of bayer ag. there are also several mid-size competitors and new start-up companies working in the animal health area. in addition, we compete with hundreds of other producers of animal health products throughout the world. the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. for example, the level of generic competition is higher in europe and certain emerging markets than in the u.s. unlike in the human health market, there is no large, well-capitalized company focused on generic animal health products that exists as a global competitor in the industry. the reasons for this include the relatively smaller average market size of each product opportunity, the importance of direct distribution and education to veterinarians and livestock producers and the primarily self-pay nature of the business. in addition, companion animal health products are often directly prescribed and dispensed by veterinarians. the importance of quality and safety concerns to pet owners, veterinarians and livestock producers also contributes to animal health brand loyalty. as a result, we believe that significant brand loyalty to products often continues after the loss of patent-based and regulatory exclusivity. 8 | table of contents intellectual property our technology, brands and other intellectual property are important elements of our business. we rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as regulatory exclusivity periods and non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. our policy is to vigorously protect, enforce and defend our rights to our intellectual property, as appropriate. our product portfolio enjoys the protection of approximately 6,000 granted patents and 1,550 pending patent applications, filed in more than 50 countries, with a focus on our major markets, including australia, brazil, canada, china, europe, japan and the u.s., as well as other countries with strong patent systems. many of the patents and patent applications in our portfolio are the result of our in-house research and development, while other patents and patent applications in our portfolio were wholly or partially developed by third parties and are licensed to zoetis. patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. below is a summary of our recent and upcoming key patent expirations. draxxin, containing the active ingredient tulathromycin, is covered by formulation patents in the u.s., europe, canada, australia and other key markets, with terms that expire between november 2020 and february 2021 in the u.s., europe, canada and australia. the active ingredient tulathromycin is protected in japan until 2023. generic tulathromycin products are marketed in certain countries including colombia, vietnam, belarus, russia, poland and croatia. marketing authorizations for generic tulathromycin products have been granted in europe and australia. there are pending marketing authorizations for generic tulathromycin products in australia and additional authorizations may be granted in various markets in the future. at this time, market entry of generic tulathromycin products in the u.s. is not anticipated before february 2021. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line (excede) began expiring in the u.s. in 2015. however, various formulation and use patents relevant to the product line extend through to 2024. a generic version of excede has entered the market in mexico. at this time, the market entry of a generic version of excede in the u.s. is not anticipated before 2024. the compound patent for selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticides revolution and stronghold, expired in 2014. formulation patents covering these products expired in important markets in 2019. generic versions of selamectin are now marketed in markets including europe australia and canada. a generic version of selamectin received marketing approval in the u.s. in november 2019. the patent for the active ingredient of convenia has expired; however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between november 2022 and october 2023. the patent for the active ingredient of cerenia has expired; however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between may 2020 and january 2027. a generic version of cerenia has been registered in europe and is marketed in the european union, and there is a pending registration in canada. at this time, there is no indication of market entry of a generic version of cerenia in the u.s. there are pending registrations for generic versions of proheart 12 in australia. the formulation patent covering proheart 12 expired in the u.s. in 2019, but expires in australia, canada and japan in october 2021. zoetis typically enforces its patents vigorously as appropriate both within and outside the u.s., including by filing infringement claims against other parties. additionally, many of our vaccine products are based on proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, including by seeking to require our employees, consultants, advisors and partners to enter into confidentiality agreements and other arrangements upon the commencement of their employment or engagement. following our separation from pfizer, pfizer licenses to us the right to use certain intellectual property rights in the animal health field. we license to pfizer the right to use certain of our trademarks and substantially all of our other intellectual property rights in the human health field and all other fields outside of animal health. in addition, pfizer granted us a perpetual license to use certain of pfizer's product name trademarks. we seek to file and maintain trademarks around the world based on commercial activities in most regions where we have, or desire to have, a business presence for a particular product or service. we currently maintain more than 7,900 trademark applications and registrations in our market countries, identifying products and services dedicated to the care of livestock and companion animals. regulatory the sale of animal health products is governed by the laws and regulations specific to each country in which we sell our products. to maintain compliance with these regulatory requirements, we have established processes, systems and dedicated resources with end-to-end involvement from product concept to launch and maintenance in the market. our regulatory function actively seeks to engage in dialogue with various global agencies regarding their policies that relate to animal health products. in the majority of our markets, the relevant animal health authority is separate from those governing human medicinal products. united states united states food and drug administration (fda). the regulatory body that is responsible for the regulation of animal health pharmaceuticals in the u.s. is the center for veterinary medicine (cvm), housed within the fda. all manufacturers of animal health pharmaceuticals must show their products to be safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act. the fda's basis for approving a drug application is documented in a freedom of information summary. post-approval monitoring of products is required by law, with reports being provided to the cvm's surveillance and compliance group. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the law. additionally, we are required to submit all new information for a product, regardless of the source. 9 | table of contents united states department of agriculture (usda). the regulatory body in the u.s. for veterinary vaccines is the usda. the usda's center for veterinary biologics is responsible for the regulation of animal health vaccines, including immunotherapeutics. all manufacturers of animal health biologicals must show their products to be pure, safe, effective and produced by a consistent method of manufacture as defined under the virus serum toxin act. post-approval monitoring of products is required. reports of product quality defects, adverse events or unexpected results are produced in accordance with the agency requirements. environmental protection agency (epa). the main regulatory body in the u.s. for veterinary pesticides is the epa. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the u.s., pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. in addition, the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) prohibits u.s. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. the scope of the fcpa includes interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries. other countries have enacted similar anti-corruption laws and/or regulations. we are also subject to foreign trade controls administered by certain u.s. government agencies, including the bureau of industry and security within the commerce department, customs and border protection within the department of homeland security and the office of foreign assets control within the treasury department (ofac). as a result of our acquisition of abaxis, our product portfolio now includes human medical diagnostics, which are subject to regulation in the u.s. by the fda under the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, including the 1976 medical device amendments and the quality system regulation, and the clinical laboratory improvement amendments of 1988, and by the department of health and human services office for civil rights under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996. outside the united states european union (eu). the european medicines agency (ema) is the centralized regulatory agency of the eu, located in amsterdam. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by healthcare companies seeking centralized approval for use in the eu. the agency has a veterinary review section distinct from the medical review section. the committee for veterinary medicinal products (cvmp) is responsible for scientific and technical review of the submissions for innovative pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals and vaccines. after the cvmp issues a positive opinion on the approvability of a product, the eu commission reviews the opinion and, if they agree with the cvmp, they grant the product market authorization. once granted by the european commission, a centralized marketing authorization is valid in all eu and european economic area-european free trade association states. products can also be registered in the eu via a decentralized route under the supervision of the co-ordination group for mutual recognition and decentralized procedures - veterinary (cmdv). this co-ordination group is composed of one representative per member state from each national regulatory agency, including norway, iceland and liechtenstein. the cmdv reviews submissions of pharmaceuticals and vaccines for authorization of a veterinary product in two or more member states in accordance with the mutual recognition or the decentralized procedure. a series of regulations, directives, guidelines and eu pharmacopeia monographs provide the requirements for product approval in the eu. in general, these requirements are similar to those in the u.s., requiring demonstrated evidence of, safety, efficacy, and quality/consistency of manufacturing processes. we are also subject to the eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) that requires us to meet enhanced requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the rights of data subjects to request correction or deletion of their personal data. brazil. the ministry of agriculture, livestock production and supply (mapa) is the regulatory body in brazil that is responsible for the regulation and control of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives for animal use. mapa's regulatory activities are conducted through the secretary of agricultural defense and its livestock products inspection department. in addition, regulatory activities are conducted at a local level through the federal agriculture superintendence. these activities include the inspection and licensing of both manufacturing and commercial establishments for veterinary products, as well as the submission, review and approval of pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medicated feed additives. mapa is one of the most active regulatory agencies in latin america, having permanent seats at several international animal health forums, such as codex alimentarius, world organization for animal health and committee of veterinary medicines for the americas. mapa was also invited to be a latin american representative at meetings of the international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). several normative instructions issued by mapa have set regulatory trends in latin america. australia. the australian pesticides and veterinary medicines authority (apvma) is an australian government statutory authority established in 1993 to centralize the registration of all agricultural and veterinary products into the australian marketplace. previously each state and territory government had its own system of registration. the apvma assesses applications from companies and individuals seeking registration so they can supply their product to the marketplace. applications undergo rigorous assessment using the expertise of the apvma's scientific staff and drawing on the technical knowledge of other relevant scientific organizations, commonwealth government departments and state agriculture departments. if the product works as intended and the scientific data confirms that when used as directed on the product label it will have no harmful or unintended effects on people, animals, the environment or international trade, the apvma will register the product. as well as registering new agricultural and veterinary products, the apvma reviews older products that have been on the market for a substantial period of time to ensure they still do the job users expect and are safe to use. the apvma also reviews registered products when particular concerns are raised about their safety and effectiveness. the review of a product may result in confirmation of its registration, or it may see registration continue with some changes to the way the product can be used. in some cases the review may result in the registration of a product being canceled and the product taken off the market. rest of world. country-specific regulatory laws have provisions that include requirements for certain labeling, safety, efficacy and manufacturers' quality control procedures (to assure the consistency of the products), as well as company records and reports. with the exception of the eu, most other countries' regulatory agencies will generally refer to the fda, usda, eu and other international animal health entities, including the world organization for animal health and codex alimentarius, in establishing standards and regulations for veterinary pharmaceuticals and vaccines. 10 | table of contents global policy and guidance joint fao/who expert committee on food additives. the joint fao/who expert committee on food additives is an international expert scientific committee that is administered jointly by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the world health organization (who). they provide a risk assessment/safety evaluation of residues of veterinary drugs in animal products, exposure and residue definition and maximum residue limit proposals for veterinary drugs. we work with them to establish acceptable safe levels of residual product in food-producing animals after treatment. this in turn enables the calculation of appropriate withdrawal times for our products prior to an animal entering the food chain. advertising and promotion review. promotion of prescription animal health products is controlled by regulations in many countries. these rules generally restrict advertising and promotion to those claims and uses that have been reviewed and endorsed by the applicable agency. we conduct a review of promotion materials for compliance with the local and regional requirements in the markets where we sell animal health products. food safety inspection service/generally recognized as safe. the fda is authorized to determine the safety of substances (including generally recognized as safe substances, food additives and color additives), as well as prescribing safe conditions of use. however, although the fda has the responsibility for determining the safety of substances, the food safety and inspection service, the public health agency in the usda, still retains, under the tenets of the federal meat inspection act and the poultry products inspection act and their implementing regulations, the authority to determine whether new substances and new uses of previously approved substances are suitable for use in meat and poultry products. international cooperation on harmonisation of technical requirements for registration of veterinary medicinal products (vich). vich is a trilateral (eu-japan-usa) program aimed at harmonizing technical requirements for veterinary product registration. the objectives of the vich are as follows: establish and implement harmonized technical requirements for the registration of veterinary medicinal products in the vich regions, which meet high quality, safety and efficacy standards and minimize the use of test animals and costs of product development. provide a basis for wider international harmonization of registration requirements through the vich outreach forum. monitor and maintain existing vich guidelines, taking particular note of the ich work program and, where necessary, update these vich guidelines. ensure efficient processes for maintaining and monitoring consistent interpretation of data requirements following the implementation of vich guidelines. by means of a constructive dialogue between regulatory authorities and industry, provide technical guidance enabling response to significant emerging global issues and science that impact on regulatory requirements within the vich regions. employees as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately 10,600 employees worldwide, which included approximately 5,000 employees in the u.s. and approximately 5,600 in other jurisdictions. some of these employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements, including approximately 48 union employees in the u.s. information about our executive officers kristin c. peck age 48 chief executive officer and director ms. peck has served as our chief executive officer since january 2020 and as a director since october 2019. prior to becoming ceo, ms. peck was executive vice president and group president, u.s. operations, business development and strategy at zoetis from march 2018 to december 2019. ms. peck previously served as our executive vice president and president, u.s. operations from may 2015 to february 2018 and executive vice president and group president from october 2012 through april 2015. in these roles, ms. peck helped usher zoetis through its initial public offering in 2013 and has been a driving force of change in areas including global manufacturing and supply, global poultry, global diagnostics, corporate development, and new product marketing and global market research. before joining zoetis, ms. peck served as executive vice president, worldwide business development and innovation at pfizer inc. and as a member of pfizer's executive leadership team. glenn david age 48 executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. david has served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer since august 2016. with more than 25 years of experience in finance and operations, mr. david has played a key role in leading the financial operations for zoetis since its initial public offering in 2013. he served as our senior vice president of finance operations from 2013 to 2016 and as acting chief financial officer from april 2014 through august 2014. mr. david joined pfizer in 1999 and held various financial roles, including vice president of global finance for pfizer animal health, our predecessor company, and vice president of finance for the u.s. primary care franchise. 11 | table of contents timothy j. bettington age 46 executive vice president and president, u.s. operations mr. bettington has served as our executive vice president and president, u.s. operations since january 2020. mr. bettington joined zoetis from boehringer ingelheim (bi) where he served for 12 years, most recently as north american region head of commercial operations for bi's animal health business from january 2017 to december 2019. mr. bettington was also bi's global head of customer experience from august 2015 to december 2016, and vice president of sales and marketing for the u.s. from april 2012 to july 2015. prior to bi, mr. bettington served as senior manager food animal marketing at novartis animal health from february 2006 to march 2008. during his years at bi and novartis animal health, mr. bettington developed a deep expertise in sales, marketing, strategy and business integration. heidi c. chen age 53 executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary ms. chen has served as our executive vice president and general counsel since october 2012, and as our corporate secretary since july 2012. ms. chen was also given responsibility for our human health diagnostics business in january 2020. prior to zoetis, ms. chen was vice president and chief counsel of pfizer animal health, our predecessor company, from 2009 to 2012. ms. chen joined pfizer in 1998 and held various legal and compliance positions of increasing responsibility, including lead counsel for pfizer's established products (generics) business. robert e. kelly age 48 executive vice president and president, international operations mr. kelly was appointed executive vice president and president, international operations in january 2020, and also oversees pharmaq, our aquatic health business. mr. kelly was previously our president of international operations from march 2018 to december 2019, senior vice president of the asia-pacific cluster from april 2015 to february 2018 and senior vice president of u.s. cattle and equine from november 2009 to april 2015. mr. kelly also worked at wyeth/fort dodge animal health and schering plough before joining pfizer animal health as part of the wyeth acquisition. catherine a. knupp age 59 executive vice president and president of research and development dr. knupp has served as our executive vice president and president of research and development since october 2012. from 2005 to 2012, she served as vice president of pfizer's veterinary medicine research and development business unit. dr. knupp joined pfizer in july 2001 and held various positions, including vice president of pfizer's michigan laboratories for pharmacokinetics, dynamics and metabolism. roxanne lagano age 55 executive vice president, chief human resources officer and global operations ms. lagano has served as our executive vice president and chief human resources officer since november 2012 and was given responsibility for the global operations and security functions in january 2020. she previously had oversight of the company's corporate communications function from 2015 to 2019. prior to joining zoetis, ms. lagano was senior vice president, global compensation, benefits and wellness for pfizer. ms. lagano joined pfizer in 1997 and held various positions, including senior director, business transactions, pfizer worldwide human resources. wafaa mamilli age 53 executive vice president and chief information and digital officer ms. mamilli has served as our executive vice president and chief information and digital officer since january 2020. ms. mamilli joined zoetis from eli lilly and company where she most recently served as global chief information officer for business units from january 2019 to january 2020, where she had worldwide responsibility for digital and technology across customer experience, sales, marketing and medical affairs for diabetes, oncology, bio medicines and international business. prior to that, she was eli lilly's chief information security officer from march 2016 to march 2019 and information officer for the diabetes business unit &amp; real world evidence from may 2014 to march 2016. during her tenure at eli lilly, ms. mamilli held a variety of international and u.s. leadership positions while establishing high-performing teams to identify and deliver on opportunities at the intersection of healthcare, information technology, big data and analytics. 12 | table of contents j. michael mcfarland age 61 executive vice president and group president, accelerated growth businesses dr. mcfarland was appointed executive vice president and group president, accelerated growth businesses in january 2020 and oversees the global diagnostics, genetics, biodevices, precision livestock farming and platinum performance businesses at zoetis. dr. mcfarland previously served as our head of u.s. cattle marketing and marketing operations from may 2019 to january 2020, after having played a similar role for the u.s. petcare business from june 2015 to may 2019 during a period of key product launches and growth. during his career, he has led veterinary services and marketing organizations for companion animals and livestock at zoetis and pfizer. dr. mcfarland also worked for 15 years in private practice as a companion animal veterinarian. abhay nayak age 32 head of global strategy, commercial development and customer experience mr. nayak was appointed head of global strategy, commercial development and customer experience at zoetis in january 2020. mr. nayak also served as our head of corporate strategy from july 2018 to december 2019. prior to joining zoetis, mr. nayak was a consultant at mckinsey &amp; company from july 2015 to june 2018, where he advised leading pharmaceutical and medical device companies on crafting and executing global growth strategies. prior to that, mr. nayak was an assistant vice president at barclays bank plc in their investment banking division in london. roman trawicki age 56 executive vice president and president of global manufacturing and supply mr. trawicki has served as our executive vice president and president, global manufacturing and supply since may 2015. he joined zoetis in january 2015 as president, global manufacturing and supply. from 2009 to 2014, he was ge healthcare's general manager of global supply chain for medical diagnostics, where he focused on diagnostics, injectable contrast media and nuclear medicines. during his career, mr. trawicki has also gained extensive global leadership experience in lean manufacturing, supply and operations from additional roles at ge healthcare, coloplast and smith &amp; nephew. environmental, health and safety we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. certain environmental laws, such as the u.s. comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla), impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment, including at third-party sites or offsite disposal locations, or those who currently own or operate (or formerly owned or operated) sites where such a release occurred. in addition to clean-up actions brought by federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities, private parties could raise personal injury or other claims against us due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous materials on, from or otherwise relating to such a property. we have made, and intend to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are also a party to proceedings in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future remediation, or remedial measures to mitigate or remediate pollution. in connection with such proceedings, and otherwise, we are investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites, or financing other parties' completion of such activities. as a result, we incurred capital and operational expenditures in 2019 for environmental compliance purposes and for the clean-up of certain past industrial activities as follows: environmental-related capital expenditures - approximately $3.1 million ; and other environmental-related expenditures - approximately $18.8 million . however, we may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities relating to our current and former properties, or those liabilities associated with off-site disposal locations. such liability could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. in connection with past acquisitions and divestitures, we have undertaken certain indemnification obligations that require us, or may require us in the future, to conduct or finance environmental cleanups at sites that we no longer own or operate. we have also entered into indemnification agreements in which we are being indemnified for various environmental cleanups; however, such indemnities are limited in both time and scope and may be further limited in the presence of new information, or may not be available at all. while we cannot predict with certainty our future capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance or remediation of contaminated sites, we currently have no reason to believe that they will have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. 13 | table of contents available information the company's internet website address is www.zoetis.com. on our website, the company makes available, free of charge, its annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after the company electronically files such material with, or furnishes such material to, the securities and exchange commission (sec). also available on our website is information relating to corporate governance at zoetis and our board of directors, including as follows: our corporate governance principles; director qualification standards; zoetis code of conduct (for all of our employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller); code of business conduct and ethics for our directors; board committees and committee charters; and ways to communicate by email with our directors. we will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to our corporate secretary, zoetis inc., 10 sylvan way, parsippany, new jersey 07054. information relating to shareholder services is also available on our website. we will disclose any future amendments to, or waivers from, provisions of these ethics policies and standards affecting our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller on our website as promptly as practicable, as may be required under applicable sec and nyse rules. we use our website (www.zoetis.com) as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under regulation fair disclosure promulgated by the sec. these disclosures are included in the investors and news &amp; media sections of our website. accordingly, investors should monitor these portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. the information contained on our website does not constitute, and shall not be deemed to constitute, a part of this 2019 annual report, or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the sec. our references to the urls for websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 14 | table of contents item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information set forth in this 2019 annual report, any of the factors described below could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline. this report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements reflect our current views with respect to, among other things, future events and performance. we generally identify forward-looking statements by words such as anticipate, estimate, could, expect, intend, project, plan, predict, believe, seek, continue, outlook, "objective," "target," may, might, will, should, can have, likely or the negative version of these words or comparable words or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of future performance, actions or events. forward-looking statements are based on beliefs and assumptions made by management using currently available information. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, actions or events. in particular, forward-looking statements include statements relating to our 2020 financial guidance, future actions, business plans or prospects, prospective products, product approvals or products under development, product supply disruptions, r&amp;d costs, timing and likelihood of success, future operating or financial performance, future results of current and anticipated products and services, strategies, sales efforts, expenses, production efficiencies, production margins, anticipated timing of generic market entries, integration of acquired businesses, interest rates, tax rates, changes in tax regimes and laws, foreign exchange rates, growth in emerging markets, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans related to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results. forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and potentially inaccurate assumptions. however, there may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time. if one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if management's underlying beliefs and assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by a forward-looking statement. you should not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the sec. you are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q and 8-k reports and our other filings with the sec. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. you should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. risks related to our business and industry our products are subject to unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns. unanticipated safety, quality or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to our products, whether or not scientifically or clinically supported, leading to product recalls, withdrawals or suspended or declining sales, as well as product liability and other claims. regulatory actions based on these types of safety, quality or efficacy concerns could impact all or a significant portion of a product's sales and could, depending on the circumstances, materially adversely affect our operating results. in addition, since we depend on positive perceptions of the safety, quality and efficacy of our products, and animal health products generally, by our customers, veterinarians and end-users, any concerns as to the safety, quality or efficacy of our products, whether actual or perceived, may harm our reputation. these concerns and the related harm to our reputation could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, regardless of whether such reports are accurate. our results of operations are dependent upon the success of our top products. if any of our top products experience issues, such as loss of patent protection, material product liability litigation, new or unexpected side effects, manufacturing disruptions, regulatory proceedings, labeling changes, negative publicity, changes to veterinarian or customer preferences, and/or disruptive innovations or the introduction of more effective products, our revenues could be negatively impacted, perhaps significantly. our top five products, apoquel, draxxin, the ceftiofur product line, the revolution/stronghold line, and simparica contributed approximately 29% of our revenue in 2019. any issues with these top products would have a more significant impact to our results of operations. generic and other products may be viewed as more cost-effective than our products. we face competition from products produced by other companies, including generic alternatives to our products. we depend on patents and regulatory data exclusivity periods to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products. patents for individual products expire at different times based on the date of the patent filing (or sometimes the date of patent grant) and the legal term of patents in the countries where such patents are obtained. the extent of protection afforded by our patents varies from country to country and is limited by the scope of the claimed subject matter of our patents, the term of the patent and the availability and enforcement of legal remedies in the applicable country. as a result, we face competition from lower-priced generic alternatives to many of our products that no longer have patent protection. in certain circumstances, we have been forced to lower our prices and provide discounts or rebates in order to compete with generic products. generic competitors are becoming more aggressive in terms of launching at risk before patent rights expire and, because of their pricing, are an increasing percentage of overall animal health sales in certain regions. for example, several companies have launched generic versions of our rimadyl chewable product. as a result of generic and other competition, sales of our rimadyl chewable product in the u.s. have declined by approximately 24% in the years since their introduction. sales of our clavamox products in the u.s. also continue to be negatively impacted by generic competition. 15 | table of contents although the impact of generic competition in the animal health industry to date has not typically mirrored that seen in human health, in certain markets, the impact of generic competition in the future may more closely mirror human health as a result of changes in industry dynamics, such as channel expansion, customer consolidation, an increase in the availability and use of pet insurance and the potential for generic competition by established animal health businesses. if animal health customers increase their use of new or existing generic products, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. over the next few years, several of our products' patents will expire. draxxin, containing the active ingredient tulathromycin, is covered by formulation patents in the u.s., europe, canada, australia and other key markets, with terms that expire between november 2020 and february 2021 in the u.s., europe, canada and australia. the active ingredient tulathromycin is protected in japan until 2023. generic tulathromycin products are marketed in certain countries including colombia, vietnam, belarus, russia, poland and croatia. marketing authorizations for generic tulathromycin products have been granted in europe and australia. there are pending marketing authorizations for generic tulathromycin products in australia and additional authorizations may be granted in various markets in the future. at this time, market entry by generic tulathromycin products in the u.s. is not anticipated before february 2021. several patents covering the ceftiofur antibiotic product line (excede) began expiring in the u.s. in 2015. however, various formulation and use patents relevant to the product line extend through to 2024. a generic version of excede has entered the market in mexico. at this time, the market entry of a generic version of excede in the u.s. is not anticipated before 2024. the compound patent for selamectin, the active ingredient in our parasiticides revolution and stronghold, expired in 2014. formulation patents covering these products expired in important markets in 2019. generic versions of selamectin are now marketed in markets including europe, australia and canada. a generic version of selamectin received marketing approval in the u.s. in november 2019. draxxin, revolution/stronghold, and the ceftiofur product line contributed approximately 16% of our revenue in 2019. in addition, the patent for the active ingredient of convenia has expired, however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between november 2022 and october 2023. the patent for the active ingredient of cerenia has expired; however, there are formulation patents relevant to the product line which expire between may 2020 and january 2027. a generic version of cerenia has been registered in europe and is marketed in the european union, and there is a pending registration in canada. at this time, there is no indication of market entry of a generic version of cerenia in the u.s. there are pending registrations for generic versions of proheart 12 in australia. the formulation patent covering proheart 12 expired in the u.s. in 2019, but expires in australia, canada and japan in october 2021. zoetis typically enforces its patents whenever appropriate both within and outside the u.s., including by filing infringement claims against other parties. the animal health industry is highly competitive. the animal health industry is highly competitive. we believe many of our competitors are conducting r&amp;d activities in areas served by our products and in areas in which we are developing products. our competitors include standalone animal health businesses and the animal health businesses of large pharmaceutical companies. there are also several new start-up companies working in the animal health area. in certain markets, we also compete with companies that produce generic products, but the level of competition from generic products varies from market to market. these competitors may have access to greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources or have significant market share in particular areas. as a result, they may be able to devote more resources to developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling their products, initiating or withstanding substantial price competition or more readily taking advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. further, consolidation in the animal health industry could result in existing competitors realizing additional efficiencies or improving portfolio bundling opportunities, thereby potentially increasing their market share and pricing power, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and profitability and an increase in competition. in addition to competition from established market participants, new entrants to the animal health medicines and vaccines industry could substantially reduce our market share or render our products obsolete. to the extent that any of our competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor or we are forced to reduce, or are unable to raise, the price of any of our products in order to remain competitive, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. competitive pressure could arise from, among other things, safety and efficacy concerns, limited demand growth or a significant number of additional competitive products being introduced into a particular market, price reductions by competitors, the ability of competitors to capitalize on their economies of scale, the ability of competitors to produce or otherwise procure animal health products at lower costs than us and the ability of competitors to access more or newer technology than us. disruptive innovations and advances in medical practices and technologies could negatively affect the market for our products. the market for our products could be impacted negatively by the introduction and/or broad market acceptance of newly-developed or alternative products that address the diseases and conditions for which we sell products, including green or holistic health products or specially bred disease-resistant animals. in addition, technological breakthroughs by others may obviate our technology and reduce or eliminate the market for our products. introduction or acceptance of such products or technologies could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. consolidation of our customers and distributors could negatively affect the pricing of our products. veterinarians and livestock producers are our primary customers. in recent years, there has been a trend towards the concentration of veterinarians in large clinics and hospitals. in addition, livestock producers, particularly swine and poultry producers, and our distributors, have seen consolidation in their industries. furthermore, we have seen the expansion of larger cross-border corporate customers and an increase in the consolidation of buying groups (cooperatives of veterinary practices that leverage volume to pursue discounts from manufacturers). the pace of consolidation and structure of markets varies greatly across geographies. if these trends towards consolidation continue, these customers and distributors could attempt to improve their profitability by leveraging their buying power to obtain favorable pricing. the resulting decrease in our prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 16 | table of contents changes in distribution channels for companion animal products could negatively impact our market share, margins and distribution of our products. in most markets, companion animal owners typically purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. companion animal owners increasingly have the option to purchase animal health products from sources other than veterinarians, such as internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels. this trend has been demonstrated by the significant shift away from the veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of flea and tick products in recent years. companion animal owners also could decrease their reliance on, and visits to, veterinarians as they rely more on internet-based animal health information. because we primarily market our companion animal products through the veterinarian distribution channel, any decrease in visits to veterinarians by companion animal owners could reduce our market share for such products and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, companion animal owners may substitute human health products for animal health products if human health products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. legislation has also been proposed in the u.s. in the past, and may be proposed in the u.s. or abroad in the future, that could impact the distribution channels for our companion animal products. for example, such legislation may require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosure that the pet owner may fill prescriptions through a third party, which may further reduce the number of pet owners who purchase their animal health products directly from veterinarians. such requirements may lead to increased use of generic alternatives to our products or the increased substitution of our products with other animal health products or human health products if such other products are deemed to be lower-cost alternatives. many states already have regulations requiring veterinarians to provide prescriptions to pet owners upon request and the american veterinary medical association has long-standing policies in place to encourage this practice. in the u.s. and certain other markets, these and other competitive conditions have increased, and may continue to increase, our reliance on internet-based retailers, big-box retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels to sell our companion animal products. over time we may be unable to sustain our current margins due to the increased purchasing power of such retailers as compared to traditional veterinary practices. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we may not successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form and manage alliances or divest businesses. we pursue acquisitions, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances or divestitures of some of our businesses as part of our business strategy. we may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all. in addition, we may be subject to regulatory constraints or limitations or other unforeseen factors that prevent us from realizing the expected benefits. even if we are successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. we may be unable to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we may be unable to achieve expected gross margin improvements or efficiencies. we also could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. our reported results of operations could be negatively affected by acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. we may be subject to litigation in connection with, or as a result of, acquisitions, dispositions, licenses or other alliances, including claims from terminated employees, customers or third parties, and we may be liable for future or existing litigation and claims related to the acquired business, disposition, license or other alliance because either we are not indemnified for such claims or the indemnification is insufficient. while our evaluation of any potential transaction includes business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions or fines resulting from an acquisition target's previous activities, inadequate controls, or costs associated with any quality issues with an acquisition target's legacy products. for example, in february 2020, we submitted an initial voluntary disclosure to the u.s. department of treasury's office of foreign assets control (ofac) regarding certain transactions that could potentially have involved sales of food, medicine or devices to individuals or entities who may have been resident in or had ties to iran. the sales were made by our platinum performance business, which we acquired in august 2019. while it is unknown at this time, whether violation of u.s. sanctions laws occurred, our internal investigation is continuing, and we have committed to providing a full report of our findings and any additional transactions with any sanctioned or prohibited persons to ofac when completed. any of these events could cause us to incur significant expenses and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. acquiring or implementing new business lines or offering new products and services may subject us to additional risks. from time to time, we may acquire or implement new business lines or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. for example, with our july 2018 acquisition of abaxis, we added new products and services to our existing point-of-care veterinary diagnostics business, and with our recent acquisitions of phoenix lab and znlabs we entered into the reference lab market. we are also investing in genetics and precision livestock farming, digital technology and data analytics and insurance agency services. there may be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. we may invest significant time and resources in developing, marketing, or acquiring new lines of business and/or offering new products and services. initial timetables for the introduction and development or acquisition of new lines of business and/or the offering of new products or services may not be achieved, and price and profitability targets may prove to be unachievable. our lack of experience or knowledge, as well as external factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the success of an acquisition or the implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. new business lines or new products and services within existing lines of business could affect the sales and profitability of existing lines of business or products and services. other risks include: (i) potential diversion of management's attention, available cash, and other resources 17 | table of contents from our existing businesses; (ii) unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; (iii) the need for additional capital and other resources to expand into or acquire the new line of business; (iv) potential damage to existing customer relationships, lack of customer acceptance or inability to attract new customers; and (v) the inability to compete effectively. failure to successfully manage these risks in the implementation or acquisition of new lines of business or the offering of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. restrictions and bans on the use of and consumer preferences regarding antibacterials in food-producing animals may become more prevalent. the issue of the potential transfer of increased antibacterial resistance in bacteria from food-producing animals to human pathogens, and the causality of that transfer, continue to be the subject of global scientific and regulatory discussion. antibacterials refer to small molecules that can be used to treat or prevent bacterial infections and are a sub-categorization of the products that make up our anti-infectives and medicated feed additives portfolios. in some countries, this issue has led to government restrictions and bans on the use of specific antibacterials in some food-producing animals, regardless of the route of administration (in feed or injectable). these restrictions are more prevalent in countries where animal protein is plentiful and governments are willing to take action even when there is scientific uncertainty. our total revenue attributable to antibacterials for livestock was approximately $1.2 billion for the year ended december 31, 2019 . for example, regulations regarding antibiotic usage in animals have been introduced in certain markets, including the u.s., the eu, china, france, germany, and vietnam. in addition, certain jurisdictions like italy have implemented the use of electronic prescriptions, which has caused more disciplined use of antibiotics and decreased the demand for our products. in certain markets, there has been an increase in consumer preference towards proteins produced without the use of antibiotics. we cannot predict whether antibacterial resistance concerns will result in additional restrictions or bans, expanded regulations, public pressure to discontinue or reduce use of antibacterials in food-producing animals or increased consumer preference for antibiotic-free protein, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. perceived adverse effects linked to the consumption of food derived from animals that utilize our products or animals generally could cause a decline in the sales of such products. our livestock business depends heavily on a healthy and growing livestock industry. if the public perceives a risk to human health from the consumption of the food derived from animals that utilize our products, there may be a decline in the production of such food products and, in turn, demand for our products. for example, livestock producers may experience decreased demand for their products or reputational harm as a result of evolving consumer views of animal rights, nutrition, health-related, environmental or other concerns. any reputational harm to the livestock industry may also extend to companies in related industries, including our company. adverse consumer views related to the use of one or more of our products in livestock also may result in a decrease in the use of such products and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, changing consumer preferences and increasing consumer interest in alternatives to animal-based protein and dairy products has driven the growth of plant-based substitutes. any resulting reduced demand for animal-based foods could adversely affect the livestock industry and, as a result, reduce demand for our livestock products, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our business is subject to risk based on global economic conditions. macroeconomic, business and financial disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. certain of our customers and suppliers could be affected directly by an economic downturn and could face credit issues or cash flow problems that could give rise to payment delays, increased credit risk, bankruptcies and other financial hardships that could decrease the demand for our products or hinder our ability to collect amounts due from customers. if one or more of our large customers, including distributors, discontinue their relationship with us as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. in addition, economic concerns may cause some pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary practices or could reduce their willingness to treat pet health conditions or even to continue to own a pet. infectious disease outbreaks, pandemics and widespread fear of spreading disease through human contact can cause disruptions to or negatively impact our, our customers' and our distributors' business operations, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, our exposure to credit and collectability risk is higher in certain international markets and our ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit and collectability risk, there can be no assurances such procedures will effectively limit such risk and avoid losses. increased regulation or decreased governmental financial support relating to the raising, processing or consumption of food-producing animals could reduce demand for our livestock products. companies in the livestock industries are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent regulations. if livestock producers are adversely affected by new regulations or changes to existing regulations, they may reduce herd sizes or become less profitable and, as a result, they may reduce their use of our products, which may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, new or more stringent regulations could, directly or indirectly, impact the use of one or more of our products. more stringent regulation of the livestock industry or our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, many food-producing companies, including livestock producers, benefit from governmental subsidies, and if such subsidies were to be reduced or eliminated, these companies may become less profitable and, as a result, may reduce their use of our products. an outbreak of infectious disease carried by animals could negatively affect the sale and production of our products. sales of our livestock products could be materially adversely affected by the outbreak of disease carried by animals, which could lead to the widespread death or precautionary destruction of animals as well as the reduced consumption and demand for animal protein. in addition, 18 | table of contents outbreaks of disease carried by animals may reduce regional or global sales of particular animal-derived food products or result in reduced exports of such products, either due to heightened export restrictions or import prohibitions, which may reduce demand for our products due to reduced herd or flock sizes. in recent years, outbreaks of various diseases, including african swine fever, avian influenza, foot-and-mouth disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (otherwise known as bse or mad cow disease) and porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (otherwise known as pedv), have impacted the animal health business. the discovery of additional cases of any of these, or new, diseases may result in additional restrictions on animal proteins, reduced herd sizes, or reduced demand for, animal protein, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. also, the outbreak of any highly contagious disease near our main production sites could require us to immediately halt production of our products at such sites or force us to incur substantial expenses in procuring raw materials or products elsewhere. our business may be negatively affected by weather conditions, natural disasters, climate change and the availability of natural resources. weather conditions, including excessive cold or heat, natural disasters and other events, could negatively impact our livestock customers by impairing the health or growth of their animals or the production or availability of feed. such events can also interfere with our livestock customers' operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to their farms or facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. for example, severe droughts can lead to a decrease in harvested corn and higher corn prices, which may impact the profitability of livestock producers of cattle, pork and poultry. higher corn prices may contribute to reductions in herd or flock sizes that may result in reduced spending on animal health products. in addition, droughts can lead to reduced availability of grazing pastures, forcing cattle producers to cull their herds. fewer heads of cattle could result in reduced demand for our products. heat waves may cause stress in animals and lead to increased vulnerability to disease, reduced fertility rates and reduced milk production. in addition, the impact of climate change, including increased temperatures and rising water levels, may negatively affect our livestock customers, including by increasing the prevalence of parasites and diseases that affect food animals. adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and climate change may also have a material impact on the aquaculture business. changes in water temperatures could affect the timing of reproduction and growth of various fish species, as well as trigger the outbreak of certain water borne diseases. furthermore, livestock producers depend on the availability of natural resources, including large supplies of fresh water. their animals' health and their ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience a shortage of fresh water due to human population growth, climate change or floods, droughts or other weather conditions. in the event of a natural disaster, adverse weather conditions, climate change-related impacts or a shortage of fresh water, veterinarians or livestock producers may purchase less of our products and our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. in addition, veterinary hospitals and practitioners depend on visits from and access to animals under their care. veterinarians' patient volume and ability to operate could be adversely affected if they experience natural disasters, including floods, fires, earthquakes and hurricanes or other storms, or prolonged snow, ice or other weather conditions, particularly in regions not accustomed to sustained inclement weather. the animal health industry and demand for many of our animal health products in particular regions are also affected by weather conditions, as usage of our products follows varying weather patterns and weather-related pressures from pests, such as ticks. as a result, we may experience regional and seasonal fluctuations in our results of operations. modification of foreign trade policy by the u.s. or foreign countries or the imposition of tariffs on u.s. or foreign goods may harm our business. changes in u.s. laws, agreements and policies governing foreign trade in the territories and countries where our customers do business could negatively impact such customers' businesses and adversely affect our operating results. a number of our customers, particularly u.s.-based livestock producers, benefit from free trade agreements such as the north american free trade agreement (nafta). the u.s., canada and mexico reached an agreement to replace nafta with the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca). most provisions of the usmca will not begin until all governments ratify the usmca. these new provisions, as well as any other changes to international trade agreements or policies could harm our customers, and as a result, negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in response to u.s. tariffs affecting foreign exports, some foreign governments, including china, have instituted and may in the future institute tariffs on certain u.s. goods. while the scope and duration of these and any future tariffs remains uncertain, tariffs imposed by the u.s. or foreign governments on our products or the active pharmaceutical ingredients or other components thereof could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to risk based on customer exposure to rising costs and reduced customer income. feed, fuel and transportation and other key costs for livestock producers may increase or animal protein prices or sales may decrease. either of these trends could cause deterioration in the financial condition of our livestock product customers, potentially inhibiting their ability to purchase our products or pay us for products delivered. our livestock product customers may offset rising costs by reducing spending on our products, including by switching to lower-cost alternatives to our products. in addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners also could cause veterinarians to alter their treatment recommendations in favor of lower-cost alternatives to our products. these shifts could result in a decrease in sales of our companion animal products, especially in developed countries where there is a higher rate of pet ownership. 19 | table of contents our business could be adversely affected by labor disputes, strikes or work stoppages. some of our employees are members of unions, works councils, trade associations or are otherwise subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain jurisdictions, including the u.s. as a result, we are subject to the risk of labor disputes, strikes, work stoppages and other labor-relations matters. we may be unable to negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on similar or more favorable terms and may experience work stoppages or other labor problems in the future at our sites. we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, potentially resulting in canceled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation or shortages and reduced revenue and net income. we may also experience difficulty or delays in implementing changes to our workforce in certain markets. in addition, labor problems at our suppliers, cmos or other service providers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. loss of our executive officers or other key personnel or other changes to our management team could disrupt our operations or harm our business. we depend on the efforts of our executive officers and certain key personnel. our executive officers and other key personnel are not currently, and are not expected to be, subject to non-compete provisions. in addition, we generally do not enter into employment agreements with our executive officers and other key personnel. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan for one or more of our executive officers or other key positions could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. the loss or limited availability of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified executive officers or other key personnel in the future, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. following our recent ceo transition, we have made a number of changes to our senior management team. such leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage, and an inadequate transition may cause disruption to our business, including to our relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors and employees. it may also make it more difficult for us to hire and retain key employees. we may be required to write down goodwill or identifiable intangible assets. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america (u.s. gaap), if we determine goodwill or identifiable intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets and record a non-cash impairment charge. as of december 31, 2019 , we had goodwill of $ 2.6 billion and identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization, of $ 1.9 billion . identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of developed technology rights, brands, trademarks, license agreements, patents, acquired customer relationships and in-process r&amp;d. determining whether an impairment exists and the amount of the potential impairment involves quantitative data and qualitative criteria that are based on estimates and assumptions requiring significant management judgment. future events or new information may change management's valuation of an intangible asset in a short amount of time. the timing and amount of impairment charges recorded in our consolidated statements of income and write-downs recorded in our consolidated balance sheets could vary if management's conclusions change. any impairment of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. risks related to research and development our r&amp;d, acquisition and licensing efforts may fail to generate new products and product lifecycle innovations. our future success depends on both our existing product portfolio and our pipeline of new products, including new products that we may develop through joint ventures and products that we are able to obtain through license or acquisition. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to r&amp;d, both through our own dedicated resources and through collaborations with third parties. we may be unable to determine with accuracy when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched, or we may be unable to develop, license or otherwise acquire product candidates or products. in addition, we cannot predict whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful or will achieve sales and revenue that are consistent with our expectations. the animal health industry is subject to regional and local trends and regulations and, as a result, products that are successful in some of our markets may not achieve similar success when introduced into new markets. furthermore, the timing and cost of our r&amp;d may increase, and our r&amp;d may become less predictable. for example, changes in regulations applicable to our industry may make it more time-consuming and/or costly to research, develop and register products. if we are unable to generate new products or expand the use of our existing products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. new product r&amp;d leverages discoveries of agribusiness, pharmaceutical and biotechnology r&amp;d. we have and expect to continue to enter into collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties to provide us with access to molecules, compounds and other technology for purposes of our business. such agreements are typically complex and require time to negotiate and implement. if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, any collaboration that we enter into may not be successful, and the success may depend on the efforts and actions of our collaborators, which we may not be able to control. if we are unable to access these technologies to conduct r&amp;d on cost-effective terms, our ability to develop some types of new products could be limited. we may experience difficulties or delays in the development, manufacturing and commercialization of new products. new products may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or at all. in addition, product extensions or additional indications may not be approved. developing and commercializing new products subjects us to inherent risks and uncertainties, including (i) delayed or denied regulatory approvals, (ii) delays or challenges with producing products in 20 | table of contents accordance with regulatory requirements, on a commercial scale and at a reasonable cost; (iii) failure to accurately predict the market for new products; and (iv) efficacy and safety concerns. in addition, a failure to continue to identify and develop products, both internally and through external sources, could impact our future success. once necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any new product depends upon, among other things, its acceptance by veterinarians and end customers, and on our ability to successfully manufacture, market, and distribute products in sufficient quantities to meet actual demand. for example, we experienced challenges in manufacturing apoquel when it was initially launched in 2015 that impacted our ability to meet customer demand. as a result, we had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians could purchase and delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. the inability to successfully bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. our r&amp;d relies on evaluations in animals, which may become subject to bans or additional restrictive regulations. the evaluation of our existing and new medicines and vaccines for animals is required in order to develop and commercialize them. animal testing in certain industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. some organizations and individuals have attempted to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. to the extent that the activities of such organizations and individuals are successful, our r&amp;d, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, negative publicity about us or our industry could harm our reputation. risks related to manufacturing manufacturing problems and capacity imbalances may cause product launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls or unanticipated costs. in order to sell our products, we must be able to produce and ship our products in sufficient quantities. on december 31, 2019 , we had a global manufacturing network consisting of 27 manufacturing sites located in 13 countries. we also employ a network of 147 third-party cmos. many of our products involve complex manufacturing processes and are sole-sourced from certain manufacturing sites. minor deviations in our manufacturing or logistical processes, such as temperature excursions or improper package sealing, could result in delays, inventory shortages, unanticipated costs, product recalls, product liability and/or regulatory action. in addition, a number of factors could cause production interruptions, including: the failure of us or any of our vendors or suppliers, including logistical service providers, to comply with applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines, including any changes to good manufacturing practices (gmp); mislabeling; construction delays; equipment malfunctions; shortages of materials; labor problems; delays in receiving any required governmental authorizations, including as a result of any prolonged shutdown of the u.s. government; natural disasters; power outages; criminal and terrorist activities; changes in manufacturing production sites and limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, shipping distributions or physical limitations; and the outbreak of any highly contagious diseases near our production sites. these interruptions could result in launch delays, inventory shortages, recalls, unanticipated costs or issues with our agreements under which we supply third parties, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. for example, we experienced challenges in manufacturing apoquel when it was initially launched in 2015 that impacted our ability to meet customer demand. as a result, we had to place limits on the amounts of this product veterinarians could purchase and delayed the launch of the product in certain markets. in addition, regulatory agencies in russia and turkey will soon no longer accept gmp certificates issued by outside authorities and instead will require country-specific gmp certification. as a result, we have been undergoing processes at the relevant manufacturing sites to satisfy their country-specific gmp requirements. our failure to achieve these necessary certifications on a timely basis or at all could impact our ability to sell our products in these markets. our manufacturing network may be unable to meet the demand for our products or we may have excess capacity if demand for our products changes. the unpredictability of a product's regulatory or commercial success or failure, the lead time necessary to construct highly technical and complex manufacturing sites, and shifting customer demand (including as a result of market conditions or entry of branded or generic competition) increase the potential for capacity imbalances. in addition, construction of sites is expensive, and our ability to recover costs will depend on the market acceptance and success of the products produced at the new sites, which is uncertain. we rely on third parties to provide us with materials and services, and are subject to increased labor and material costs and potential disruptions in supply. the materials used to manufacture our products may be subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by changes in demand, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other factors. in addition, labor costs may be subject to 21 | table of contents volatility caused by the supply of labor, governmental regulations, economic climate and other factors. increases in the demand for, availability or the price of, materials used to manufacture our products and increases in labor costs could increase the costs to manufacture our products, result in product delivery delays or shortages, and impact our ability to launch new products on a timely basis or at all. we may not be able to pass all or a material portion of any higher material or labor costs on to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain third-party suppliers are the sole or exclusive source of certain materials and services necessary for production of our products. we may be unable to meet demand for certain of our products if any of our third-party suppliers cease or interrupt operations, fail to renew contracts with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations to us. there may be delays and additional costs due to changes to our existing manufacturing facilities and the construction of new manufacturing plants. as part of our supply network strategy, we have invested and will continue to invest in improvements to our existing manufacturing facilities and in new manufacturing plants. we are currently investing in two new plants, one in rathdrum, ireland for the production of active ingredients for some of our key products and one in suzhou, china for the research and production of vaccines in china. in addition, certain of our existing manufacturing facilities are in the process of being upgraded. these types of projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, and will require licensure by various regulatory authorities. significant cost overruns or delays in completing these projects could have an adverse effect on the company's return on investment. risks related to legal matters and regulation our business is subject to substantial regulation. as a global company, we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations, including regulations relating to the development, quality assurance, manufacturing, importation, distribution, marketing and sale of our products. in addition, our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspections by regulatory agencies. an inspection may report conditions or practices that indicate possible violations of regulatory requirements. our failure, or the failure of third parties we rely on, including cmos, to comply with these regulatory requirements, allegations of such non-compliance or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in, among other things, inspection observation notices, warning letters or similar regulatory correspondence, fines, a partial or total shutdown of production in one or more of our facilities while an alleged violation is remediated, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, and civil or criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims. any one of these consequences could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we will not be able to market new products unless and until we have obtained all required regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction where we propose to market those products. even after a product reaches market, it may be subject to re-review and may lose its approvals. we have changed, and may in the future change, the locations of where certain of our products are manufactured and, because of these changes, we may be required to obtain new regulatory approvals. our failure to obtain approvals, delays in the approval process, including any delays resulting from any prolonged shutdown of the u.s. government, or our failure to maintain approvals in any jurisdiction, may prevent us from selling products in that jurisdiction until approval or reapproval is obtained, if ever. furthermore, we cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, or changes in tax laws and tariffs, nor can we determine the effect that additional laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could have on our business when and if promulgated, or the impact of changes in the interpretation of these laws and regulations, or of disparate federal, state, local and foreign regulatory schemes. changes to such laws or regulations may include, among other things, changes to taxation requirements, such as tax-rate changes and changes affecting the taxation by the u.s. of income earned outside the u.s. changes in applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. we may incur substantial costs and receive adverse outcomes in litigation and other legal matters. our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected by unfavorable results in pending or future litigation matters. these matters include, among other things, allegations of violation of u.s. and foreign competition laws, labor laws, consumer protection laws, and environmental laws and regulations, as well as claims or litigations relating to product liability, intellectual property, securities, breach of contract and tort. in addition, changes in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, or in legal standards in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could increase our exposure to liability. for example, in the u.s., attempts have been made to allow damages for emotional distress and pain and suffering in connection with the loss of, or injury to, a companion animal. if such attempts were successful, our exposure with respect to product liability claims could increase materially. we also sell certain nutritional and diagnostic products used in human health that could increase the scope of our liability. litigation matters, regardless of their merits or their ultimate outcomes, are costly, divert management's attention and may materially adversely affect our reputation and demand for our products. we cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of pending or future litigation matters. an adverse outcome of litigation or legal matters could result in our being responsible for significant damages. any of these negative effects resulting from litigation matters could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 22 | table of contents the misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages. our products have been approved for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain diseases and conditions in specific species. there may be increased risk of product liability claims and other liability if veterinarians, livestock producers, pet owners or others attempt to use our products off-label, including the use of our products in species (including humans) for which they have not been approved. in addition, certain of our products could be misused or abused by humans, which could expose us to liability. for example, ketamine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our ketaset product (a nonnarcotic agent for anesthetic use in cats), is abused by humans as a hallucinogen. furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. if we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. any of these events could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products or of stolen, diverted or relabeled products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or illegally compounded versions of our products that do not meet the exacting standards of our development, manufacturing and distribution processes. counterfeit or illegally compounded medicines pose a significant risk to animal health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured and the lack of regulation of their contents. counterfeit or illegally compounded products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening to animals. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or illegally compounded products which are alleged to be equivalent and/or which are sold under our brand name. we are aware of at least one pharmacy in brazil that may be engaged in the practice of illegally compounding oclacitinib, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our apoquel product. in addition, products stolen or unlawfully diverted from inventory, warehouses, plants or while in transit, which are not properly stored or which have an expired shelf life and which have been repackaged or relabeled and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact animal health and safety, our reputation and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of vaccines and/or pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, illegally compounding or theft could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. we are subject to complex environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations govern matters such as the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; the generation, use, storage, handling, treatment, packaging, transportation, exposure to, and disposal of hazardous and biological materials, including recordkeeping, reporting and registration requirements; and the health and safety of our employees. due to our operations, these laws and regulations also require us to obtain, and comply with, permits, registrations or other authorizations issued by governmental authorities. these authorities can modify or revoke our permits, registrations or other authorizations and can enforce compliance through fines and injunctions. given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are currently incurring and may in the future incur, liabilities under cercla or under other federal, state, local and foreign environmental cleanup laws, with respect to our current or former sites, adjacent or nearby third-party sites, or offsite disposal locations. see item 1. business environmental, health and safety . the costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance could be material. additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous materials into the environment. such liability could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, regulatory agencies are showing increasing concern over the impact of animal health products and livestock operations on the environment. this increased regulatory scrutiny may necessitate that additional time and resources be spent to address these concerns in both new and existing products. a failure to comply with the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations to which we are subject, including any permits issued thereunder, may result in environmental remediation costs, loss of permits, fines, penalties or other adverse governmental or private actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or remedial measures. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials or environmental damage. environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent and stringently enforced over time and may be subject to new interpretation. we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous materials will not materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we may be unable to adequately protect our stakeholders' privacy or we may fail to comply with privacy laws. the protection of customer, employee, supplier and company data is critical and the regulatory environment surrounding information security, storage, use, processing, disclosure and privacy is demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements. in addition, our customers, employees and suppliers expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. any actual or perceived significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, cyber-attack or corruption of customer, employee or company data or our failure to comply with federal, state, local and foreign privacy laws, including the eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) and the health insurance portability and accountability act, could result in lost sales, remediation costs, and legal liability including severe penalties, regulatory action and reputational harm. for example, the eu's gdpr requires companies to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the rights of data subjects to request correction or deletion of their personal data. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. 23 | table of contents despite our considerable efforts and investments in technology to secure our computer network, security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated or system disruptions could occur. failure to comply with the security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on our ability to accept payment by credit or debit cards. in addition, the payment card industry (pci) is controlled by a limited number of vendors that have the ability to impose changes in pci's fee structure and operational requirements on us without negotiation. such changes in fees and operational requirements may result in our failure to comply with pci security standards, as well as significant unanticipated expenses. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. risks related to operating in foreign jurisdictions a significant portion of our operations are conducted in foreign jurisdictions, including jurisdictions presenting a high risk of bribery and corruption, and are subject to the economic, political, legal and business environments of the countries in which we do business. our international operations could be limited or disrupted by any of the following: volatility in the international financial markets; compliance with governmental controls; difficulties enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; theft or compromise of technology, data and intellectual property; parallel trade in our products (importation of our products from european union countries where our products are sold at lower prices into european union countries where the products are sold at higher prices); compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the fcpa and similar non-u.s. laws and regulations; compliance with foreign labor laws; burdens to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental, health and safety requirements; changes in laws, regulations, government controls or enforcement practices with respect to our business and the businesses of our customers, including the imposition of limits on our profitability; political and social instability, including crime, civil disturbance, terrorist activities and armed conflicts; trade restrictions and restrictions on direct investments by foreign entities, including restrictions administered by the office of foreign assets control of the u.s. department of treasury (ofac) and the european union, in relation to our products or the products of farmers and other customers (e.g., restrictions on the importation of agricultural products from the european union to russia); government limitations on foreign ownership; government takeover or nationalization of business; changes in tax laws and tariffs; imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions; costs and difficulties and compliance risks in staffing, managing and monitoring international operations, including the use of overseas third-party goods and service providers; corruption risk inherent in business arrangements and regulatory contacts with foreign government entities; longer payment cycles and increased exposure to counterparty risk; and additional limitations on transferring personal information between countries or other restrictions on the processing of personal information. in addition, international transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs. compliance with these requirements may prohibit the import or export of certain products and technologies or may require us to obtain a license before importing or exporting certain products or technology. a failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in civil or criminal legal proceedings, monetary or non-monetary penalties, or both, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services, and damage to our reputation. in addition, variations in the pricing of our products between jurisdictions may result in the unauthorized importation or unauthorized re-importation of our products between jurisdictions and may also result in the imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing duties or other trade-related sanctions. while the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any of them could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. changes in any of these laws, regulations or requirements, or the political environment in a particular country, may affect our ability to engage in business transactions in certain markets, including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom (u.k.) approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as "brexit." this referendum has created political and economic uncertainty, over the past few years, particularly in the u.k. and the european union, and this uncertainty may persist for several years. on march 29, 2017, the u.k. formally notified the european council of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the european union under article 50 of the treaty of lisbon. on january 23, 2020, the u.k. government approved the withdrawal agreement bill pursuant to which the u.k. exited the eu on january 31, 2020, subject to a transition period of 11 months that commenced on january 31, 2020 for trade and relationship negotiations between the u.k. and the eu. during this transition period, the u.k. is to remain part of the single eu market and its customs union, and the free movement of people between the u.k. and the eu will continue. a withdrawal of the u.k. without a trade agreement in place at the end of such transition period could significantly disrupt 24 | table of contents the free movement of goods, services, and people between the u.k. and the eu, and result in increased legal and regulatory complexities, as well as potential higher costs of conducting business in europe. additional brexit-related impacts on our business could include potential inventory shortages in the u.k., increased regulatory burdens and costs to comply with u.k.-specific regulations and higher transportation costs for our products coming into and out of the u.k. the u.k.'s vote to exit the eu could also result in similar referendums or votes in other eu member countries in which we do business. the uncertainty surrounding the terms of the u.k.'s withdrawal and its consequences could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence, and could affect sales or regulation of our products. any of these effects, among others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. foreign exchange rate fluctuations and potential currency controls affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. we conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. in 2019 , we generated approximately 44% of our revenue in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, principally the euro, brazilian real, chinese renminbi, canadian dollar, australian dollar, and u.k. pound. we are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenue. in addition, because our financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. we also face risks arising from currency devaluations and the imposition of cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls. currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. cash repatriation restrictions and exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into u.s. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing restrictions or controls. while we currently have no need, and do not intend, to repatriate or convert cash held in countries that have significant restrictions or controls in place, should we need to do so to fund our operations, we may be unable to repatriate or convert such cash, or be unable to do so without incurring substantial costs. we currently have substantial operations in countries that have cash repatriation restrictions or exchange controls in place, including china, and, if we were to need to repatriate or convert such cash, these controls and restrictions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. for example, in 2015, we recorded a net remeasurement loss of $89 million on bolivar-denominated net monetary assets, primarily related to cash deposits in venezuela, as a result of our evaluation of evolving economic conditions in venezuela, including the devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar in 2013. we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of our investments in emerging markets and are subject to certain risks due to our presence in emerging markets, including political or economic instability and failure to adequately comply with legal and regulatory requirements. we have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets. failure to continue to maintain and expand our business in emerging markets could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. some countries within emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of local, regional or global economic, political or social instability or crisis. for example, our sales in certain emerging markets have suffered from extended periods of disruption due to natural disasters. furthermore, we have also experienced lower than expected sales in certain emerging markets due to local, regional and global restrictions on banking and commercial activities in those countries. in addition, certain emerging markets have currencies that fluctuate substantially, which may impact our financial performance. for example, in the past, our revenue in certain emerging markets in latin america has been adversely impacted by currency fluctuations and devaluations. in addition, certain emerging markets have legal systems that are less developed or familiar to us. other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may have legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from u.s. laws and regulations, are continuously evolving or do not include sufficient judicial or administrative guidance to interpret such laws and regulations. compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. in the event we believe or have reason to believe our employees have or may have violated applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to investigation costs, potential penalties and other related costs which in turn could negatively affect our reputation and our results of operations. for all these and other reasons, doing business within emerging markets carries significant risks. risks related to tax matters the company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new u.s. or foreign tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. the multinational nature of our business subjects us to taxation in the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. the company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. for example, on october 9, 2019, the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) published the secretariat proposal for a unified approach under pillar one (pillar one unified approach). the pillar one unified approach represents an effort by the oecd to address the tax challenges of the digital economy. the proposal does not ringfence the so-called digital economy and instead it seeks to allocate a greater share of taxing rights to the countries where consumers are located regardless of the physical presence of the business. in addition, on november 8, 2019 the oecd published a public consultation document for the global anti-base erosion proposal (pillar two). this proposal introduces common global minimum tax rules across the countries participating in the oecd inclusive framework. such rules would operate through top-up taxes and other measures if a multinational group's income is not subject to a sufficient level of tax in particular 25 | table of contents jurisdictions. these two proposals combined may represent a significant change in the international tax regime. these high-level proposals, which require unanimous consent, in its early stages and specific details have yet not been developed. the potential impact to our effective tax rate is unknown at this time. on march 29, 2017, the u.k. formally notified the european council of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit , under article 50 of the treaty of lisbon. on january 23, 2020, the u.k. government approved the withdrawal agreement bill pursuant to which the u.k. exited the eu on january 31, 2020, subject to a transition period of 11 months that commenced on january 31, 2020 for trade and relationship negotiations between the u.k. and the eu. at this time, the impact of brexit to our effective tax rate remains uncertain. in addition, our effective tax rate is subject to potential risks that various taxing authorities may challenge the pricing of our cross-border arrangements and subject us to additional tax, adversely impacting our effective tax rate and our tax liability. the company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the internal revenue service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. the company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. if the company's effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the u.s. or other material foreign jurisdictions, or if the ultimate determination of the company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the company's operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks related to intellectual property the alleged intellectual property rights of third parties may negatively affect our business. a third party may sue us, our distributors or licensors, or otherwise make a claim, alleging infringement or other violation of the third-party's patents, trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names or other intellectual property rights. if we do not prevail in this type of dispute, we may be required to: pay monetary damages; obtain a license in order to continue manufacturing or marketing the affected products, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; or stop activities, including any commercial activities, relating to the affected products, which could include a recall of the affected products and/or a cessation of sales in the future. the costs of defending an intellectual property action are often substantial and could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, even if we successfully defend such action. moreover, even if we believe that we do not infringe a validly existing third-party patent, we may choose to license such patent, which would result in associated costs and obligations. we may also incur costs in connection with an obligation to compensate a distributor, licensor or other third party. the intellectual property positions of animal health medicines and vaccines businesses frequently involve complex legal and factual questions, and an issued patent does not provide the right to practice the patented technology or to develop, manufacture or commercialize the patented product. we cannot guarantee that a competitor or other third party does not have or will not obtain rights to intellectual property that, in the absence of a license, may prevent us from manufacturing, developing or marketing certain of our products, regardless of whether we believe such intellectual property rights are valid and enforceable, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. if our intellectual property rights are challenged or circumvented, competitors may be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts. our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. we rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret, data protection, and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. if we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be approved on a timely basis, or at all. similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be approved on a timely basis, if at all. our currently pending and granted patents may be challenged in inter partes review or opposition proceedings. in addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. the valid scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have their own patent laws. for example, some countries only permit the issuance of patents covering a novel chemical compound itself, and its first use, and thus further methods of use for the same compound, may not be patentable. we may be subject to challenges by third parties regarding our intellectual property, including claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term. the validity, enforceability, scope and effective term of patents can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal and factual questions and proceedings that differ between jurisdictions. our ability to enforce our patents also depends on the laws of individual countries and each country's practice with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, including because such agreements expire or are terminated, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. changes in patent law and practice in the u.s. and other countries may also weaken our ability to enforce our patent rights, or make such enforcement financially unattractive. for instance, u.s. court decisions continue to influence changes to u.s. patent and trademark office guidelines regarding inventions in the field of products isolated from nature and diagnostic methods which may influence future patenting strategy in these areas. a similar court decision was issued in australia with regard to the patentability of nucleic acids. patent law reforms and new case law could result in increased costs to protect our intellectual property and/or limit our ability to adequately patent our products. 26 | table of contents additionally, certain foreign governments have indicated that compulsory licenses to patents may be granted in the case of national emergencies, which could diminish or eliminate sales and profits from those regions and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. likewise, in the u.s. and other countries, we currently hold issued trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the same and thus create the potential need to rebrand or re-label a product. as our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks to differentiate us from our competitors increases and as a result, if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our trademark rights, our business could be materially adversely affected. many of our vaccine products and other products are based on or incorporate proprietary information, including proprietary master seeds and proprietary or patented adjuvant formulations. we actively seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their employment, engagement or other relationship. despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. the misappropriation and infringement of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the u.s., may occur even when we take steps to prevent it. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to patent lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming, and if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business and financial condition. in the future, we may not be able to enforce intellectual property that relates to our products for various reasons, including licensor restrictions and other restrictions imposed by third parties, or the cost of enforcing our intellectual property may outweigh the value of doing so; either of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. risks related to information technology we may be unable to adequately protect our information technology systems from cyber-attacks, breaches of security or misappropriation of data, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, and subject us to significant financial and legal exposure. our reputation as a global leader in animal health and our reliance on complex information systems make us inherently vulnerable to malicious cyber intrusion and attack. cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. cyber-attacks could include wrongful conduct by hostile foreign governments, industrial espionage, the deployment of harmful malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, and other means to threaten data confidentiality, integrity and availability. in addition, despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we (or our third party partners) may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromise of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information (including confidential business information, trade secrets, intellectual property and corporate strategic plans), defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. like other global companies, we have experienced threats to our data and information technology systems. to date, those threats have not had a material impact on our business operations or financial condition. however, although we devote resources to protect our information technology systems, we expect cyber-attacks to continue, and there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent information security breaches that would result in business, legal or reputational harm to us, or would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. if hackers or cyberthieves gain improper access to our technology systems, networks, or infrastructure, they may be able to access, steal, publish, delete, misappropriate, modify or otherwise disrupt access to confidential data. moreover, additional harm to customers could be perpetrated by third parties who are given access to the confidential data. a network disruption (including one resulting from a cyberattack) could cause an interruption or degradation of service as well as permit access, theft, publishing, deletion, misappropriation, or modification to or of confidential data. due to the evolving techniques used in cyberattacks to disrupt or gain unauthorized access to technology networks, we may not be able to anticipate or prevent such disruption or unauthorized access. the costs imposed on us as a result of a cyberattack or network disruption could be significant. among others, such costs could include increased expenditures on cyber security measures, litigation, regulatory investigations, fines, and sanctions, lost revenues from business interruption, damage to the public's perception regarding our ability to keep our information secure and significant remediation costs. as a result, a cyberattack or network disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. we depend on sophisticated information technology and infrastructure. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems to manage our operations, to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our personnel, customers and suppliers around the world. system failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our customers, or delay our financial reporting. such failures could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 27 | table of contents in addition, we depend on third parties and applications on virtualized (cloud) infrastructure to operate and support our information systems. these third parties include large established vendors, as well as many small, privately owned companies. failure by these providers to adequately support our operations or a change in control or insolvency of these providers could have an adverse effect on our business, which in turn may materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. all information systems, despite implementation of security measures, are vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access. if our information systems were to fail or be breached, such failure or breach could materially adversely affect our ability to perform critical business functions and sensitive and confidential data could be compromised. we may be unable to successfully manage our online ordering sites. in many markets around the world, such as the u.s. and brazil, we provide online ordering sites to customers, often relying on third parties to host and support the application. the operation of our online business depends on our ability to maintain the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our online order-taking and fulfillment operations. risks associated with our online business include: disruptions in telephone or internet service or power outages; failures of the information systems that support our website, including inadequate system capacity, computer viruses, human error, changes in programming, security breaches, system upgrades or migration of these services to new systems; reliance on third parties for computer hardware and software as well as delivery of merchandise to our customers; rapid technology changes; credit card fraud; natural disasters or adverse weather conditions; power and network outages; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; liability for online content; and consumer privacy concerns. problems in any one or more of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could damage our reputation. risks related to our indebtedness we have substantial indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity. as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately $6.5 billion of total unsecured indebtedness outstanding. in addition, we currently have agreements for a multi-year revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program, each with a capacity of up to $1.0 billion. while we currently do not have any amounts drawn under the credit facility nor any commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program, we may incur indebtedness under these arrangements in the future. we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, business development or other general corporate requirements, including dividends; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are and may in the future be at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the animal health industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other, less leveraged competitors; impacting our effective tax rate; and increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. for example, our credit facility contains a financial covenant requiring us to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio and covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability, subject to certain exceptions, to incur liens, merge, consolidate or sell, transfer or lease assets, transact with affiliates and incur priority indebtedness. our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. we also have outstanding floating rate notes due 2021 (the 2021 floating rate notes ) that have their interest rate calculated quarterly using three-month libor. the u.k. financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021, and it appears likely that libor will be discontinued or modified by 2021. the discontinuance or modification of libor, the introduction of alternative reference rates or other reforms to libor could cause the interest rate calculated on our 2021 floating rate notes to be materially different than expected. in addition, if interest rates in general continue to rise, our interest expense related to the 2021 floating rate notes will increase. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. 28 | table of contents if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to dispose of material assets or operations, alter our dividend policy, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. the instruments that will govern our indebtedness may restrict our ability to dispose of assets and may restrict the use of proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. in addition, we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will depend on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries, including certain international subsidiaries, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. our subsidiaries may not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances, legal, tax and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may materially adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness or pay dividends on our common stock. we may not have the funds necessary to finance the change of control offer required by the indenture governing our senior notes. upon the occurrence of a change of control of zoetis and a downgrade below investment grade by moody's investor services, inc. and standard &amp; poor's rating services, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. however, we may not have sufficient funds available at the time of the change of control to finance the required change of control offer or restrictions in our then-existing debt instruments will not allow such repurchases. our failure to purchase the senior notes as required under the indenture would result in a default under the indenture, which could have material adverse consequences for us and the holders of the senior notes. our credit ratings may not reflect all risks of an investment in our senior notes. the credit ratings assigned to our senior notes are limited in scope, and do not address all material risks relating to an investment in our senior notes, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating is issued. there can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the applicable rating agencies, if, in such rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. credit ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security. each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect the market prices of our securities and increase our borrowing costs. risks related to our relationship with pfizer certain of our directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions with pfizer. certain of our directors are employed or have been employed by pfizer or may own pfizer common stock, options to purchase pfizer common stock or other pfizer equity awards. certain of these holdings may be individually significant to these directors as compared with such director's total assets. these directors' positions at pfizer and the ownership of any pfizer equity or equity awards may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for pfizer than for us. pfizer's rights as licensor under the patent and know-how license could limit our ability to develop and commercialize certain products. under the patent and know-how license agreement (pfizer as licensor) (the patent and know-how license agreement), pfizer licenses to us certain of its intellectual property. if we fail to comply with our obligations under this license agreement and pfizer exercises its right to terminate it, our ability to continue to research, develop and commercialize products incorporating that intellectual property will be limited. in addition, in circumstances where pfizer has an interest in the licensed intellectual property in connection with its human health development programs, our rights to use the licensed intellectual property are restricted and/or, in limited instances, subject to pfizer's right to terminate such license at will. these limitations and termination rights may make it more difficult, time-consuming or expensive for us to develop and commercialize certain new products, or may result in our products being later to market than those of our competitors. we are dependent on pfizer to prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. under the patent and know-how license agreement, pfizer is responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining patents that pfizer licenses to us. in the animal health field, pfizer has the first right, and in some cases the sole right, to enforce such licensed patents, and in the human health field, subject to certain exceptions, pfizer has the sole right to enforce the licensed patents. if pfizer fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents under this agreement, we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, we may not be able to engage in certain transactions. on may 22, 2013, pfizer announced an exchange offer (the exchange offer) whereby pfizer shareholders could exchange a portion of pfizer common stock for zoetis common stock. the exchange offer was completed on june 24, 2013, resulting in the full separation of zoetis and 29 | table of contents the disposal of pfizer's entire ownership and voting interest in zoetis. to preserve the tax-free treatment to pfizer and/or its stockholders of the exchange offer and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, we are restricted from taking any action that prevents such transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal, state, local and foreign income tax purposes. these restrictions may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions, including taking certain actions with respect to our 3.250% senior notes due 2023. if there is a later determination that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, we could incur significant liabilities. pfizer has received a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986 (the code). completion by pfizer of the exchange offer was conditioned on, among other things, the continuing application of pfizer's private letter ruling from the irs and the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel, to the effect that, among other things, the exchange offer will qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. the ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from pfizer and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, pfizer and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinion of tax counsel, the irs could determine on audit that the exchange offer or certain related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of pfizer or us after the exchange offer. if the exchange offer or certain related transactions are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we could incur significant liabilities under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement. risks related to our common stock the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, and you could lose all or part of your investment in zoetis common stock as a result. there may be wide fluctuations in the market value of our common stock as a result of many factors. from our ipo through february 1, 2020, the sales price of our common stock as reported by the nyse has ranged from a low sales price of $28.14 on april 15, 2014 to a high sales price of $143.33 on january 22, 2020. some factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, in addition to the other risks mentioned in this section and in our 2019 annual report, are: our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; our or our competitors' press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; changes in our investor base; failures to meet external expectations or management guidance; fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in our capital structure or dividend policy, future issuances or repurchases of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or the incurrence of additional debt; reputational issues; changes in general economic and market conditions in any of the regions in which we conduct our business; the arrival or departure of key personnel; the actions of speculators and financial arbitrageurs (such as hedge funds); changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and other dynamics; and other developments or changes affecting us, our industry or our competitors. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry or industries related to our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition and results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. while we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we may change our dividend policy at any time. on december 11, 2019, our board of directors declared the 2020 first quarter dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on march 3, 2020, to holders of record on january 17, 2020; and on february 11, 2020, our board of directors declared the 2020 second quarter dividend of $0.20 per share to be paid on june 1, 2020, to holders of record on april 17, 2020. although we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to our common stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. returns on stockholders' investments will primarily depend on the appreciation, if any, in the price of our common stock. we anticipate that we will retain most of our future earnings, if any, for use in the development and expansion of our business, repayment of indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. the declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, 30 | table of contents cash flows available in the u.s., impact on our effective tax rate, indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, and delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and our amended and restated by-laws, which we refer to as our by-laws, contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. these provisions include: a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors; limitations on the right of stockholders to act by written consent; and limitations on the right of stockholders to call for special meetings. in addition, delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in our and our stockholders' best interests. 31 | table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. a significant portion of our revenue and costs are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. in addition, our outstanding borrowings may be subject to risk from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using certain financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. foreign exchange risk our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the australian dollar, brazilian real, canadian dollar, chinese yuan, euro, and u.k. pound. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenue in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany short-term foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations. our financial instrument holdings at december 31, 2019 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined using level 2 inputs. for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 3. significant accounting policies : fair value . the sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of all foreign currency forward-exchange contracts at december 31, 2019 , indicates that if the u.s. dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would increase by $ 13 million , and if the u.s. dollar were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the fair value of these contracts would decrease by $ 17 million . for additional details, see notes to consolidated financial statements note 9c. financial instruments: derivative financial instruments . interest rate risk our outstanding debt balances are predominantly fixed rate debt. while changes in interest rates will have no impact on the interest we pay on our fixed rate debt, interest on our $300 million aggregate principal amount of 2018 floating rate senior notes due 2021, as well as interest on our commercial paper and revolving credit facility will be exposed to interest rate fluctuations. additionally, as of december 31, 2019 , because we held certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed-interest obligations associated with our 3.9% senior notes due 2028, the fixed-rate interest payable on these senior notes effectively became variable based on libor. at december 31, 2019 , there were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding and no outstanding principal balance under our revolving credit facility. by issuing the floating-rate notes and by entering into the aforementioned swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our consolidated statements of income. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of december 31, 2019 , if libor-based interest rates would have been higher by 100 basis points, the change would have increased our interest expense annually by approximately $4.5 million , as it relates to our fixed to floating interest rate swap agreements and floating-rate borrowings. see notes to consolidated financial statements note 9. financial instruments . 58 | table of contents