risk factors 13 risk factors for an additional description of this risk. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. this affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. we believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. research and development research and development expenditures were $121.1 million during fiscal year 2014 , $132.4 million during fiscal year 2013 , and $131.8 million during fiscal year 2012 . we have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory service and support markets within our environmental health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2015 , and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in 10 table of contents connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $12.3 million and $13.5 million as of december 28, 2014 and december 29, 2013 , respectively, which represents our management's estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. these amounts are recorded in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. during fiscal year 2014, we recorded a benefit of $2.3 million for cost reimbursements related to a particular site, of which $1.2 million was for future monitoring and mitigation activities. during fiscal year 2013, we accrued an additional $5.7 million related to a particular site for increased monitoring and mitigation activities, of which $4.6 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. our environmental accrual is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. the cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of december 28, 2014 , we employed approximately 7,700 employees in our continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of december 28, 2014 , we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,500 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. financial information about business segments we have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments. 11 table of contents the table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss) from continuing operations by operating segment for the fiscal years ended: december 28, 2014 december 29, 2013 december 30, 2012 (in thousands) human health product revenue $ 996,767 $ 957,022 $ 926,733 service revenue 246,635 244,088 237,892 total revenue 1,243,402 1,201,110 1,164,625 operating income from continuing operations (1) 220,165 156,452 63,773 environmental health product revenue 543,308 541,048 547,941 service revenue 450,509 415,428 392,622 total revenue 993,817 956,476 940,563 operating income from continuing operations (1) 109,129 97,052 111,844 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (2)(3) (118,552 ) (25,710 ) (72,497 ) continuing operations product revenue $ 1,540,075 $ 1,498,070 $ 1,474,674 service revenue 697,144 659,516 630,514 total revenue 2,237,219 2,157,586 2,105,188 operating income from continuing operations 210,742 227,794 103,120 interest and other expense, net 41,139 64,110 47,956 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 169,603 $ 163,684 $ 55,164 ____________________________ (1) pre-tax impairment charges have been included in our human health and environmental health operating income from continuing operations. we had no pre-tax impairment charges in fiscal year 2014. we recognized a $0.2 million pre-tax impairment charge in our human health segment in fiscal year 2013. we recognized $73.4 million of pre-tax impairment charges in our human health segment and also recognized $0.7 million of pre-tax impairment charges in our environmental health segment in fiscal year 2012. (2) activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans has been included in the corporate operating loss from continuing operations, and in the aggregate constituted a pre-tax loss of $75.9 million in fiscal year 2014 , pre-tax income of $17.6 million in fiscal year 2013 , and a pre-tax loss of $31.8 million in fiscal year 2012 . (3) includes expenses related to litigation with enzo biochem, inc. and enzo life sciences, inc. (collectively, enzo ). enzo filed a complaint in 2002 alleging that we separately and together with other defendants breached distributorship and settlement agreements with enzo, infringed enzo's patents, engaged in unfair competition and fraud, and committed torts against enzo by, among other things, engaging in commercial development and exploitation of enzo's patented products and technology. we entered into a settlement agreement with enzo dated june 20, 2014 and during fiscal year 2014 paid $7.0 million into a designated escrow account to resolve this matter, of which $3.7 million had been accrued in previous years and $3.3 million was recorded during fiscal year 2014. in addition, $3.4 million of expenses were incurred and recorded in preparation for the trial during fiscal year 2014. additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures december 28, 2014 december 29, 2013 december 30, 2012 december 28, 2014 december 29, 2013 december 30, 2012 (in thousands) (in thousands) human health $ 89,969 $ 98,582 $ 99,597 $ 15,201 $ 20,900 $ 24,518 environmental health 24,736 25,915 23,001 12,149 16,532 14,488 corporate 2,031 2,382 2,528 1,722 1,549 3,395 continuing operations 116,736 126,879 125,126 29,072 38,981 42,401 discontinued operations $ 339 $ 1,590 $ 1,741 $ 213 $ 10 $ 7 12 table of contents total assets december 28, 2014 december 29, 2013 december 30, 2012 (in thousands) human health $ 2,645,411 $ 2,692,809 $ 2,700,565 environmental health 1,453,683 1,213,801 1,153,444 corporate 34,981 34,271 33,952 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 5,831 13,801 total assets $ 4,134,075 $ 3,946,712 $ 3,901,762 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2014 , we had $1,387.9 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2014 , we derived approximately 50% of our international sales from our human health segment and approximately 50% of our international sales from our environmental health segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. our business is affected by global economic conditions and the state of the financial markets, particularly as the united states and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. there can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the united states and internationally. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. while we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations 13 table of contents could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable, or successfully divest businesses. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of perten in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. 14 table of contents to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. the expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, 15 table of contents settlements of income tax audits, expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, and changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states; tnt, ups and dhl in europe; and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. we are subject to the rules of the securities and exchange commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives), which may be contained in our products are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. as a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. 16 table of contents the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies in the united states and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of the products produced by our human health segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, and our business practices in the united states and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. this requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. a failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2014 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, 17 table of contents embargoes, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, policies in foreign countries benefiting domestic manufacturers or other policies detrimental to companies headquartered in the united states, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to develop, manufacture and provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. 18 table of contents restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 5% senior unsecured notes due in 2021 (the "2021 notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our 2021 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 28, 2014 , our total assets included $2.8 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, customer relationships, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our human health and environmental health segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several years, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from our financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 23, 2014 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014 that will be payable in february 2015 . on january 23, 2015 , we announced that our board had 19 table of contents declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 that will be payable in may 2015 . in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 28, 2014 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. therefore, the fluctuations in foreign currency can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily denominated in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. principal hedged currencies include the british pound, euro, japanese yen and singapore dollar. we held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as fair value hedges, with u.s. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $95.0 million at december 28, 2014 , $138.4 million at december 29, 2013 and $64.3 million at december 30, 2012 , and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012 . during fiscal year 2014 , we entered into five forward foreign exchange contracts with settlement dates in fiscal year 2015 and combined euro denominated notional amounts of 238.2 million , designated as cash flow hedges, that were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements. the fair value of these currency derivative contracts at december 28, 2014 was not material. the unrealized gain, which was recorded in other 51 table of contents comprehensive income, will be recognized in interest and other expense, net, in the period in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs and impacts earnings. such amounts were not material for fiscal year 2014. during december 2012, we entered into forward foreign exchange contracts with settlement dates in fiscal year 2013 and combined euro denominated notional amounts of 50.0 million , designated as cash flow hedges. during fiscal year 2013, we settled these euro denominated forward foreign exchange contracts. the derivative gains were recognized in the period in which the underlying hedged exposures occurred and impacted earnings, and were recorded in interest and other expense, net. such amounts were not material for fiscal year 2013. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. during each of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. in addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. conversely, when the u.s. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 28, 2014 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.5 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2014 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.2 million and $0.9 million , with an average of approximately $0.5 million . interest rate risk. as described above in item 7. liquidity and capital resources, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. in may 2008 , we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. during each of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. in addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net. 52 table of contents interest rate risk sensitivity . as of december 28, 2014 , our debt portfolio consisted of $516.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $174.8 million at december 28, 2014 . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $516.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 13 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.7 million for fiscal year 2015 . (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10% , or approximately 13 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.7 million for fiscal year 2015 . (iii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors for an additional description of this risk. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required for a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the range and diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. our competitors range from foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to more narrowly focused firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market positions. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. research and development research and development expenditures were $125.9 million during fiscal year 2015 , $121.1 million during fiscal year 2014 , and $132.4 million during fiscal year 2013 . we have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory service markets within our environmental health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2016 , and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment. 9 table of contents environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $11.8 million and $12.3 million as of january 3, 2016 and december 28, 2014 , respectively, which represents our management's estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. during fiscal year 2014, we recorded a benefit of $2.3 million for cost reimbursements related to a particular site, of which $1.2 million was for future monitoring and mitigation activities. during fiscal year 2013, we accrued an additional $5.7 million related to a particular site for increased monitoring and mitigation activities, of which $4.6 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. our environmental accrual is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. the cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of january 3, 2016 , we employed approximately 8,000 employees in our continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of january 3, 2016 , we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,600 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. financial information about business segments we realigned our organization at the beginning of fiscal year 2015 to enable us to both deliver complete solutions targeted towards certain end markets and develop value-added applications and solutions to foster further expansion of those markets. onesource, our multivendor laboratory service business that serves the life sciences end market, was moved from our environmental health segment into our human health segment. the results reported for fiscal year 2015 reflect this new alignment of our operating segments. financial information in this report relating to fiscal years 2014 and 2013 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this change to our operating segments. we have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments. 10 table of contents the table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss) from continuing operations by operating segment for the fiscal years ended: january 3, 2016 december 28, 2014 december 29, 2013 (in thousands) human health product revenue $ 976,451 $ 996,767 $ 957,022 service revenue 400,193 387,456 368,872 total revenue 1,376,644 1,384,223 1,325,894 operating income from continuing operations (1) 251,743 233,689 168,794 environmental health product revenue 576,187 543,308 541,048 service revenue 309,528 309,688 290,644 total revenue 885,715 852,996 831,692 operating income from continuing operations 89,544 95,605 84,710 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (2)(3) (55,153 ) (118,552 ) (25,710 ) continuing operations product revenue $ 1,552,638 $ 1,540,075 $ 1,498,070 service revenue 709,721 697,144 659,516 total revenue 2,262,359 2,237,219 2,157,586 operating income from continuing operations 286,134 210,742 227,794 interest and other expense, net 42,119 41,139 64,110 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 244,015 $ 169,603 $ 163,684 ____________________________ (1) legal costs for a particular case in our human health segment were $0.8 million for fiscal year 2015 . we also recognized a $0.2 million pre-tax impairment charge in our human health segment in fiscal year 2013. both of these items have been included in operating income from continuing operations in our human health segment. (2) activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans has been included in the corporate operating loss from continuing operations, and in the aggregate constituted a pre-tax loss of $12.4 million in fiscal year 2015 , a pre-tax loss of $75.9 million in fiscal year 2014 , and pre-tax income of $17.6 million in fiscal year 2013 . (3) includes expenses related to litigation with enzo biochem, inc. and enzo life sciences, inc. (collectively, enzo ). enzo filed a complaint in 2002 that alleged that we separately and together with other defendants breached distributorship and settlement agreements with enzo, infringed enzo's patents, engaged in unfair competition and fraud, and committed torts against enzo by, among other things, engaging in commercial development and exploitation of enzo's patented products and technology. we entered into a settlement agreement with enzo dated june 20, 2014 and during fiscal year 2014 paid $7.0 million into a designated escrow account to resolve this matter, of which $3.7 million had been accrued in previous years and $3.3 million was recorded during fiscal year 2014. in addition, $3.4 million of expenses were incurred and recorded in preparation for the trial during fiscal year 2014. additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures january 3, 2016 december 28, 2014 december 29, 2013 january 3, 2016 december 28, 2014 december 29, 2013 (in thousands) (in thousands) human health $ 81,335 $ 92,604 $ 100,941 $ 16,091 $ 16,922 $ 22,999 environmental health 29,213 22,101 23,556 10,352 10,428 14,433 corporate 1,459 2,031 2,382 3,189 1,722 1,549 continuing operations 112,007 116,736 126,879 29,632 29,072 38,981 discontinued operations $ $ 339 $ 1,590 $ $ 213 $ 10 11 table of contents total assets january 3, 2016 december 28, 2014 december 29, 2013 (in thousands) human health $ 2,778,835 $ 2,737,824 $ 2,724,254 environmental health 1,358,963 1,361,270 1,182,356 corporate 28,497 28,482 28,441 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 5,831 total assets $ 4,166,295 $ 4,127,576 $ 3,940,882 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2015 , we had $1,346.0 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2015 , we derived approximately 50% of our international sales from our human health segment and approximately 50% of our international sales from our environmental health segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. our business is affected by global economic conditions and the state of the financial markets, particularly as the united states and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. there can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the united states and internationally. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. while we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations 12 table of contents could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new reliable technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable, or successfully divest businesses. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of perten instruments group ab in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. if, for example, we are unable to successfully commercialize products and services related to significant ipr&amp;d that we have capitalized, we may have to impair the value of such assets. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the 13 table of contents expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. the expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, 14 table of contents changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, settlements of income tax audits, expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states; tnt, ups and dhl in europe; and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. we are subject to the rules of the securities and exchange commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives), which may be contained in our products are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. as a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. 15 table of contents the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies in the united states and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of the products produced by our human health segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, and our business practices in the united states and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. this requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. a failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2015 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in actual, or from projected, foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, 16 table of contents embargoes, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, policies in foreign countries benefiting domestic manufacturers or other policies detrimental to companies headquartered in the united states, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of our information technology systems, or inadvertent transfer of information, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to develop, manufacture and provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems or inadvertent transfer of information could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. 17 table of contents restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 5% senior unsecured notes due in 2021 (the "2021 notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our 2021 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of january 3, 2016 , our total assets included $2.8 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, customer relationships, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our human health and environmental health segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several years, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from our financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 29, 2015 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015 that was paid in february 2016 . on january 28, 2016 , we announced that our board had declared a 18 table of contents quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 that will be payable in may 2016 . in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of january 3, 2016 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures from these currencies, with gains and losses resulting from the forward currency contracts that hedge these exposures. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from operating activities within our consolidated statement of cash flows. principal hedged currencies include the british pound, euro, japanese yen and singapore dollar. we held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with u.s. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $127.3 million at january 3, 2016 , $95.0 million at december 28, 2014 and $138.4 million at december 29, 2013 , and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on these foreign currency derivative 50 table of contents contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during each of fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 . in addition, in connection with certain intercompany loan agreements utilized to finance our acquisitions, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of such intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. we record these hedges at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on these hedges, as well as the gains and losses associated with the remeasurement of the intercompany loans, are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from financing activities within our consolidated statement of cash flows. during fiscal year 2014, we entered into five forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with settlement dates in fiscal year 2015 and combined euro denominated notional amounts of 238.2 million outstanding as of december 28, 2014 , designated as economic hedges, that were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements. during fiscal year 2015, we settled several of these forward exchange contracts. during fiscal year 2015, we also entered into new forward foreign exchange contracts that settled in fiscal year 2015 or will settle in fiscal year 2016. the combined euro denominated notional amounts of these outstanding hedges was 107.4 million and 238.2 million as of january 3, 2016 and december 28, 2014 , respectively. the net gains and losses on these derivatives, combined with the gains and losses on the remeasurement of the hedged intercompany loans, were not material for fiscal years 2015 and 2014 . during fiscal year 2015 , we received $18.7 million as a result of the settlement of these hedges. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. during fiscal year 2013, we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. in addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. conversely, when the u.s. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of january 3, 2016 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.5 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2015 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.3 million and $0.9 million , with an average of approximately $0.5 million . interest rate risk. as described above in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. 51 table of contents in may 2008 , we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. during fiscal year 2013, we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. in addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net. interest rate risk sensitivity . as of january 3, 2016 , our debt portfolio consisted of $482.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $237.9 million at january 3, 2016 . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $482.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 14 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.7 million for fiscal year 2016 . (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10% , or approximately 14 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.7 million for fiscal year 2016 . (iii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors for an additional description of this risk. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, 9 table of contents and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required for a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the range and diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. our competitors range from foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to more narrowly focused firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market positions. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. research and development research and development expenditures were $124.3 million during fiscal year 2016 , $112.5 million during fiscal year 2015 , and $108.1 million during fiscal year 2014 . we have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. to accelerate our growth initiatives, we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014 primarily toward our diagnostics segment, and the environmental, food, life sciences research and laboratory services markets within our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2017 , and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics segment, and the environmental, food, life sciences research and laboratory services markets within our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $9.9 million and $11.8 million as of january 1, 2017 and january 3, 2016 , respectively, which represents our management's estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not 10 table of contents include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. during fiscal year 2014, we recorded a benefit of $2.3 million for cost reimbursements related to a particular site, of which $1.2 million was for future monitoring and mitigation activities. our environmental accrual is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. the cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of january 1, 2017 , we employed approximately 8,000 employees in our continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of january 1, 2017 , we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,700 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. financial information about business segments the results reported for fiscal year 2016 reflect the new alignment of our operating segments and the placement of our medical imaging business into discontinued operations due to its pending sale. financial information in the table below relating to fiscal years 2015 and 2014 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect both our new segment structure and the exclusion of our medical imaging business from continuing operations. we have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments. 11 table of contents the table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss) from continuing operations by operating segment for the fiscal years ended: january 1, 2017 january 3, 2016 december 28, 2014 (in thousands) discovery &amp; analytical solutions product revenue $ 934,098 $ 968,034 $ 944,446 service revenue 578,886 560,385 539,694 total revenue 1,512,984 1,528,419 1,484,140 operating income from continuing operations (1) 207,487 173,668 162,074 diagnostics product revenue 462,798 427,068 428,290 service revenue 139,735 149,336 157,450 total revenue 602,533 576,404 585,740 operating income from continuing operations 138,909 135,572 124,610 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (2)(3) (63,330 ) (58,314 ) (121,677 ) continuing operations product revenue $ 1,396,896 $ 1,395,102 $ 1,372,736 service revenue 718,621 709,721 697,144 total revenue 2,115,517 2,104,823 2,069,880 operating income from continuing operations 283,066 250,926 165,007 interest and other expense, net 38,998 42,119 41,139 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 244,068 $ 208,807 $ 123,868 ____________________________ (1) legal costs for a particular case in our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment were $0.8 million for fiscal year 2015 . (2) activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans has been included in the corporate operating loss from continuing operations, and in the aggregate constituted a pre-tax loss of $15.3 million in fiscal year 2016 , a pre-tax loss of $12.4 million in fiscal year 2015 , and pre-tax loss of $75.4 million in fiscal year 2014 . (3) includes expenses related to litigation with enzo biochem, inc. and enzo life sciences, inc. (collectively, enzo ). enzo filed a complaint in 2002 that alleged that we separately and together with other defendants breached distributorship and settlement agreements with enzo, infringed enzo's patents, engaged in unfair competition and fraud, and committed torts against enzo by, among other things, engaging in commercial development and exploitation of enzo's patented products and technology. we entered into a settlement agreement with enzo dated june 20, 2014 and during fiscal year 2014 paid $7.0 million into a designated escrow account to resolve this matter, of which $3.7 million had been accrued in previous years and $3.3 million was recorded during fiscal year 2014. in addition, $3.4 million of expenses were incurred and recorded in preparation for the trial during fiscal year 2014. discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table. additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures january 1, 2017 january 3, 2016 december 28, 2014 january 1, 2017 january 3, 2016 december 28, 2014 (in thousands) (in thousands) discovery &amp; analytical solutions $ 72,484 $ 74,177 $ 72,288 $ 21,486 $ 18,175 $ 18,234 diagnostics 25,339 29,728 36,146 8,556 6,854 7,196 corporate 2,149 1,459 2,031 1,660 3,189 1,722 continuing operations $ 99,972 $ 105,364 $ 110,465 $ 31,702 $ 28,218 $ 27,152 discontinued operations $ 6,266 $ 6,643 $ 6,610 $ 1,302 $ 1,414 $ 2,133 12 table of contents total assets january 1, 2017 january 3, 2016 december 28, 2014 (in thousands) discovery &amp; analytical solutions $ 2,612,757 $ 2,546,583 $ 2,614,911 diagnostics 1,505,381 1,459,854 1,343,110 corporate 31,171 28,497 28,482 current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 127,374 131,361 141,073 total assets $ 4,276,683 $ 4,166,295 $ 4,127,576 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2016 , we had $1,273.2 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2016 , we derived approximately 75% of our international sales from our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment and approximately 25% of our international sales from our diagnostics segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. our business is affected by global economic and political conditions as well as the state of the financial markets, particularly as the united states and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. there can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the united states and internationally. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. 13 table of contents while we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new reliable technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or divestitures, license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of bioo scientific in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. if, for example, we are unable to successfully commercialize products and services related to significant in-process research and development that we have capitalized, we may have to impair the value of such assets. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen 14 table of contents regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. the expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, 15 table of contents competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, settlements of income tax audits, expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states; tnt, ups and dhl in europe; and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. we are subject to the rules of the securities and exchange commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives), which may be contained in our products are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. as a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the 16 table of contents components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies in the united states and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of our products are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, and our business practices in the united states and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. this requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. a failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2016 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in actual, or from projected, foreign currency exchange rates, 17 table of contents changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, embargoes, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, policies in foreign countries benefiting domestic manufacturers or other policies detrimental to companies headquartered in the united states, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or inadvertent transfer of information, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to develop, manufacture and provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems or inadvertent transfer of information could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. we have a substantial amount of debt and other financial obligations. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. 18 table of contents in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes due in 2021 ("2021 notes") and senior unsecured notes due in 2026 ("2026 notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, the 2021 notes, the 2026 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. the approval of the brexit referendum in the u.k. may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. in a referendum vote held on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom voted to leave the european union. nearly 3% of our net sales from continuing operations in 2016 came from the u.k. at this time, we are not able to predict the impact that this vote will have on the economy in europe, including in the u.k., or on the great britain pound (the gbp ) or other european exchange rates. weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm our business, and if such conditions emerge in the u.k. or in the rest of europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our sales. in addition, any significant weakening of the gbp to the u.s. dollar will have an adverse impact on our european revenues due to the importance of u.k. sales. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of january 1, 2017 , our total assets included $2.7 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, customer relationships, core technology and technology licenses and in-process research and development, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our discovery &amp; analytical solutions and diagnostics segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 19 table of contents our share price will fluctuate. over the last several years, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from our financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 26, 2016 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 that was paid in february 2017 . on january 27, 2017 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 that will be payable in may 2017 . in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of january 1, 2017 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use 51 table of contents leveraged financial instruments. approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures from these currencies, with gains and losses resulting from the forward currency contracts that hedge these exposures. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from operating activities within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. principal hedged currencies include the british pound, euro, japanese yen and singapore dollar. we held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with u.s. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $137.5 million at january 1, 2017 , $127.3 million at january 3, 2016 and $95.0 million at december 28, 2014 , and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on these foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during each of fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014 . in addition, in connection with certain intercompany loan agreements utilized to finance our acquisitions and stock repurchase program, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of such intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. we record these hedges at fair value on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on these hedges, as well as the gains and losses associated with the remeasurement of the intercompany loans, are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from financing activities within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. as of january 1, 2017 , the outstanding forward exchange contracts designated as economic hedges, that were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to the settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements included combined euro notional amounts of 58.6 million , combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $8.7 million and combined swedish krona notional amounts of kr969.5 million . the combined euro notional amounts of these outstanding hedges was 107.4 million and 238.2 million as of january 3, 2016 and december 28, 2014 , respectively. the net gains and losses on these derivatives, combined with the gains and losses on the remeasurement of the hedged intercompany loans were not material for the fiscal years ended january 1, 2017 and january 3, 2016 . we paid $1.9 million and received $18.7 million during the fiscal years ended january 1, 2017 and january 3, 2016 , respectively, from the settlement of these hedges. during fiscal year 2016 , we entered into a series of foreign currency forward contracts with a notional amount of 492.3 million to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. realized and unrealized translation adjustments from these hedges were included in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci"), which offsets the translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. the cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. the foreign currency forward contracts were settled during fiscal year 2016 and we recorded a net realized foreign exchange gain in aoci amounting to $1.8 million during the fiscal year 2016 . during fiscal year 2016, in connection with the issuance of the 2026 notes, we designated the 2026 notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. realized and unrealized translation adjustments from these hedges will be included in the foreign currency translation component of aoci, which will offset translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. the cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. as of january 1, 2017 , the total notional amount of foreign currency denominated debt designated to hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries was 495.8 million . the unrealized foreign exchange loss recorded in aoci related to the net investment hedge was $23.8 million during the fiscal year 2016 . market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. 52 table of contents foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. conversely, when the u.s. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of january 1, 2017 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.3 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2016 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.1 million and $0.6 million , with an average of approximately $0.3 million . interest rate risk. as of january 1, 2017 , we had no outstanding borrowings under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility; however, as described above in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources, amounts drawn under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility would bear interest at variable rates. our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $359.3 million at january 1, 2017 . fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. interest rate risk sensitivity . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 17 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.1 million for fiscal year 2017 . (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors for an additional description of this risk. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to 9 table of contents significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required for a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the range and diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. our competitors range from foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to more narrowly focused firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market positions. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. research and development research and development expenditures were $139.4 million during fiscal year 2017 , $124.3 million during fiscal year 2016 , and $112.5 million during fiscal year 2015 . we have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. to accelerate our growth initiatives, we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015 primarily toward our diagnostics segment, and the environmental, food, life sciences research and laboratory services markets within our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2018 , and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics segment, and the environmental, food, life sciences research and laboratory services markets within our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $9.4 million and $9.9 million as of december 31, 2017 and january 1, 2017 , respectively, which represents our management's estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. our environmental accrual is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. the cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding 10 table of contents the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of december 31, 2017 , we employed approximately 11,000 employees in our continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of december 31, 2017 , we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,700 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. financial information about business segments we have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments. the table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss) from continuing operations by operating segment for the fiscal years ended: december 31, 2017 january 1, 2017 january 3, 2016 (in thousands) discovery &amp; analytical solutions product revenue $ 941,328 $ 934,098 $ 968,034 service revenue 637,131 578,886 560,385 total revenue 1,578,459 1,512,984 1,528,419 operating income from continuing operations (1) 206,688 196,819 162,762 diagnostics product revenue 536,086 462,798 427,068 service revenue 142,437 139,735 149,336 total revenue 678,523 602,533 576,404 operating income from continuing operations 149,636 149,577 146,478 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (2) (51,521 ) (63,330 ) (58,314 ) continuing operations product revenue $ 1,477,414 $ 1,396,896 $ 1,395,102 service revenue 779,568 718,621 709,721 total revenue 2,256,982 2,115,517 2,104,823 operating income from continuing operations 304,803 283,066 250,926 interest and other expense, net 8,085 38,998 42,119 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 296,718 $ 244,068 $ 208,807 ____________________________ (1) legal costs for a particular case in our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment were $2.7 million for fiscal year 2017 . (2) activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans has been included in the corporate operating loss from continuing operations, and in the aggregate constituted a pre-tax gain of $2.1 million in fiscal year 2017 , a pre-tax loss of $15.3 million in fiscal year 2016 , and pre-tax loss of $12.4 million in fiscal year 2015 . discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table. 11 table of contents additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures december 31, 2017 january 1, 2017 january 3, 2016 december 31, 2017 january 1, 2017 january 3, 2016 (in thousands) (in thousands) discovery &amp; analytical solutions $ 72,590 $ 72,484 $ 74,177 $ 26,200 $ 21,486 $ 18,175 diagnostics 31,204 25,339 29,728 11,262 8,556 6,854 corporate 1,206 2,149 1,459 1,627 1,660 3,189 continuing operations $ 105,000 $ 99,972 $ 105,364 $ 39,089 $ 31,702 $ 28,218 discontinued operations $ 929 $ 6,266 $ 6,643 $ 182 $ 1,302 $ 1,414 total assets december 31, 2017 january 1, 2017 january 3, 2016 (in thousands) discovery &amp; analytical solutions $ 2,744,370 $ 2,612,757 $ 2,546,583 diagnostics 3,314,804 1,505,381 1,459,854 corporate 32,289 31,171 28,497 current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 127,374 131,361 total assets $ 6,091,463 $ 4,276,683 $ 4,166,295 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2017 , we had $1,420.0 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2017 , we derived approximately 70% of our international sales from our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment and approximately 30% of our international sales from our diagnostics segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our 12 table of contents consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. our business is affected by global economic and political conditions as well as the state of the financial markets, particularly as the united states and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. there can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the united states and internationally. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. while we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new reliable technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. 13 table of contents we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or divestitures, license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisitions of euroimmun and tulip during fiscal year 2017. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. if, for example, we are unable to successfully commercialize products and services related to significant in-process research and development that we have capitalized, we may have to impair the value of such assets. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. the expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market, or incur losses for 14 table of contents failing to comply with our contractual obligations. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, settlements of income tax audits, expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, contract termination and litigation costs, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 15 table of contents a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states; tnt, ups and dhl in europe; and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. we are subject to the rules of the securities and exchange commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives) that may be contained in our products are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. as a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product and other liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product and other liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies in the united states and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of our products are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, and our business practices in the united states and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. this requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. a failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. 16 table of contents changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2017 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in actual, or from projected, foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, embargoes, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, policies in foreign countries benefiting domestic manufacturers or other policies detrimental to companies headquartered in the united states, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, expanded enforcement of laws related to data protection and personal privacy, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the 17 table of contents turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or those of our customers, suppliers or other third parties, allowing inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to develop, manufacture and provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers, suppliers or other third parties, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems, allowing inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. we have a substantial amount of debt and other financial obligations. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured term loan credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured term loan credit facility, senior unsecured notes due in 2021 ("2021 notes") and senior unsecured notes due in 2026 ("2026 notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. 18 table of contents any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured term loan credit facility, the 2021 notes, the 2026 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. the united kingdom's vote in favor of withdrawing from the european union could adversely impact our results of operations. nearly 3% of our net sales from continuing operations in fiscal year 2017 came from the united kingdom. following the referendum vote in the united kingdom in june 2016 in favor of leaving the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ), on march 29, 2017, the country formally notified the european union of its intention to withdraw. it appears likely that this withdrawal will involve a process of lengthy negotiations between the united kingdom and european union member states to determine the future terms of the united kingdom's relationship with the european union. this could lead to a period of considerable uncertainty and volatility, particularly in relation to united kingdom financial and banking markets. weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm our business, and if such conditions emerge in the united kingdom or in the rest of europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations and sales. any significant weakening of the british pound sterling to the u.s. dollar will have an adverse impact on our european revenues due to the importance of our sales in the united kingdom. currency exchange rates in the pound sterling and the euro with respect to each other and the u.s. dollar have already been adversely affected by brexit and that may continue to be the case. in addition, depending on the terms of brexit, the united kingdom could lose the benefits of global trade agreements negotiated by the european union on behalf of its members, which may result in increased trade barriers which could make our doing business in europe more difficult. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 31, 2017 , our total assets included $4.3 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, customer relationships, core technology and technology licenses and in-process research and development, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our discovery &amp; analytical solutions and diagnostics segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several years, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from our financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 27, 2017 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 that was paid in february 2018 . on january 25, 2018 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 that will be payable in may 2018 . in the future, our 19 table of contents board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 31, 2017 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use 52 table of contents leveraged financial instruments. approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures from these currencies, with gains and losses resulting from the forward currency contracts that hedge these exposures. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months , have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from operating activities within our consolidated statement of cash flows. principal hedged currencies include the british pound, euro, swedish krona, japanese yen and singapore dollar. we held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with u.s. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $212.1 million at december 31, 2017 , $137.5 million at january 1, 2017 and $127.3 million at january 3, 2016 , and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on these foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during each of fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015 . in addition, in connection with certain intercompany loan agreements utilized to finance our acquisitions and stock repurchase program, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of such intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. we record these hedges at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on these hedges, as well as the gains and losses associated with the remeasurement of the intercompany loans, are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from financing activities within our consolidated statement of cash flows. the outstanding forward exchange contracts designated as economic hedges, which were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to the settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements, included combined euro notional amounts of 57.2 million and combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $1.3 billion as of december 31, 2017 , combined euro notional amounts of 58.6 million , combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $8.7 million and combined swedish krona notional amounts of kr969.5 million as of january 1, 2017 , and combined euro notional amounts of 107.4 million as of january 3, 2016 . the net gains and losses on these derivatives, combined with the gains and losses on the remeasurement of the hedged intercompany loans were not material for each of the fiscal years 2017 and 2016 . we paid $13.8 million and $1.9 million during the fiscal years 2017 and 2016 , respectively, from the settlement of these hedges. during fiscal year 2016, we designated the 2026 notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. realized and unrealized translation adjustments from these hedges were included in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci"), which offsets translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. the cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. as of december 31, 2017 , the total notional amount of foreign currency denominated debt designated to hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries was 496.1 million . the unrealized foreign exchange loss (gain) recorded in aoci related to the net investment hedge was $73.0 million and $(23.8) million for the fiscal years 2017 and 2016 , respectively. in january 2018, we removed the hedging relationship of our 2026 notes and our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and recognized $2.1 million of unrealized foreign exchange gain in aoci. the translation adjustment of the 2026 notes will be recognized in other (income) expense, net in our consolidated statement of operations prospectively. during fiscal year 2017 , we entered into several foreign currency forward contracts to purchase euros to partly mitigate the currency exchange risk associated with the payment of the euro-denominated purchase price for euroimmun. these currency forward contracts were not designated as hedging instruments and therefore the change in the derivative fair value was marked to market through the consolidated statement of operations. the foreign currency forward contracts were settled during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017 . we received $36.5 million from the settlement of these foreign currency forward contracts and recorded a net foreign exchange gain included in other (income) expense, net amounting to $36.5 million for the fiscal year 2017 . the cash flows related to the settlement of these foreign currency forward contracts are included in cash flows from investing activities within our consolidated statement of cash flows. 53 table of contents market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. conversely, when the u.s. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 31, 2017 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.4 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2017 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.1 million and $0.7 million , with an average of approximately $0.4 million . interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $625.0 million outstanding borrowings under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, and $200.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our senior unsecured term loan credit facility. as described above in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources, amounts drawn under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our senior unsecured term loan credit facility bear interest at variable rates. our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $202.1 million at december 31, 2017 . fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. interest rate risk sensitivity . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 26 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $2.2 million for fiscal year 2018 . (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors for an additional description of this risk. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the 8 table of contents competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required for a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the range and diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. our competitors range from foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to more narrowly focused firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market positions. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. research and development we have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. to accelerate our growth initiatives, we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016 primarily toward our diagnostics segment, and the life sciences and applied markets within our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2019 , and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics segment, and the life sciences and applied markets within our discovery &amp; analytical solutions segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $7.9 million and $9.4 million as of december 30, 2018 and december 31, 2017 , respectively, which represents our management's estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. our environmental accrual is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. the cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named 9 table of contents parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of december 30, 2018 , we employed approximately 12,500 employees. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of december 30, 2018 , we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,700 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. our business is affected by global economic and political conditions as well as the state of the financial markets, particularly as the united states and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. there can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the united states and internationally. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. while we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. 10 table of contents if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new reliable technologies and applications, receive regulatory approvals in a timely manner, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or divestitures, license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our various acquisitions during fiscal year 2018. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. if, for example, we are unable to successfully commercialize products and services related to significant in-process research and development that we have capitalized, we may have to impair the value of such assets. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to 11 table of contents completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. the expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market, or incur losses for failing to comply with our contractual obligations. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed in the short term, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, settlements of income tax audits, 12 table of contents expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, contract termination and litigation costs, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states; tnt, ups and dhl in europe; and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. we are subject to the rules of the securities and exchange commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives) that may be contained in our products are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. as a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. 13 table of contents the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product and other liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product and other liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies in the united states and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of our products are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, and our business practices in the united states and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. this requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. a failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2018 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in actual, or from projected, foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, 14 table of contents trade protection measures including embargoes and tariffs, such as the tariffs recently implemented by the u.s. government on certain imports from china and by the chinese government on certain imports from the u.s., the extent and impact of which have yet to be fully determined, import or export licensing requirements and the associated potential for delays or restrictions in the shipment of our products or the receipt of products from our suppliers, policies in foreign countries benefiting domestic manufacturers or other policies detrimental to companies headquartered in the united states, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, expanded enforcement of laws related to data protection and personal privacy, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or those of our customers, suppliers or other third parties, or cybercrime, resulting in inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information or assets, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to develop, manufacture and provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers, suppliers or other third parties, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems or cybercrime, resulting in inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information or assets, could result in losses or misappropriation of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. we have a substantial amount of debt and other financial obligations. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: 15 table of contents requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes due in april 2021 ("april 2021 notes"), senior unsecured notes due in november 2021 ("november 2021 notes") and senior unsecured notes due in 2026 ("2026 notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, the april 2021 notes, the november 2021 notes, the 2026 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. the united kingdom's vote in favor of withdrawing from the european union could adversely impact our results of operations. nearly 3% of our net sales from continuing operations in fiscal year 2018 came from the united kingdom. following the referendum vote in the united kingdom in june 2016 in favor of leaving the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ), on march 29, 2017, the country formally notified the european union of its intention to withdraw. brexit has involved a process of lengthy negotiations between the united kingdom and european union member states to determine the future terms of the united kingdom's relationship with the european union. the potential effects of brexit remain uncertain. brexit has caused, and may continue to create, volatility in global stock markets and regional and global economic uncertainty particularly in the united kingdom financial and banking markets. weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm our business, and if such conditions worsen in the united kingdom or in the rest of europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations and sales. any significant weakening of the great britain pound to the u.s. dollar will have an adverse impact on our european revenues due to the importance of our sales in the united kingdom. currency exchange rates in the pound sterling and the euro with respect to each other and the u.s. dollar have already been adversely affected by brexit and that may continue to be the case. in addition, depending on the terms of brexit, the united kingdom could lose the benefits of global trade agreements negotiated by the european union on behalf of its members, which may result in increased trade barriers which could make our doing business in europe more difficult. 16 table of contents our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 30, 2018 , our total assets included $4.2 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, customer relationships, core technology and technology licenses and in-process research and development, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our discovery &amp; analytical solutions and diagnostics segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several years, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from our financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 24, 2018 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018 that was paid in february 2019 . on january 24, 2019 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 that will be payable in may 2019 . in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 30, 2018 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 70% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures from these currencies, with gains and losses resulting from the forward currency contracts that hedge these exposures. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months , have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from operating activities within our consolidated statements of cash flows. principal hedged currencies include the british pound, euro, swedish krona, chinese yuan and singapore dollar. we held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with u.s. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $223.3 million at december 30, 2018 , $212.1 million at december 31, 2017 , and $137.5 million at january 1, 2017 , and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on these foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during each of fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016 . in addition, in connection with certain intercompany loan agreements utilized to finance our acquisitions and stock repurchase program, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of such intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. we record these hedges at fair value on our 48 table of contents consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on these hedges, as well as the gains and losses associated with the remeasurement of the intercompany loans, are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from financing activities within our consolidated statement of cash flows. the outstanding forward exchange contracts designated as economic hedges, which were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to the settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements, included combined euro notional amounts of 37.3 million and combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $5.7 million as of december 30, 2018 , combined euro notional amounts of 57.2 million and combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $1.3 billion as of december 31, 2017 , and combined euro notional amounts of 58.6 million , combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $8.7 million and combined swedish krona notional amounts of kr969.5 million as of january 1, 2017 . the net gains and losses on these derivatives, combined with the gains and losses on the remeasurement of the hedged intercompany loans were not material for each of the fiscal years 2018 and 2017 . we paid $34.1 million and $13.8 million during the fiscal years 2018 and 2017 , respectively, from the settlement of these hedges. during fiscal year 2018, we entered into a series of foreign currency forward contracts with a notional amount of 298.7 million to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. realized and unrealized translation adjustments from these hedges were included in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci"), which offsets translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. the cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. the foreign currency forward contracts were settled during the second quarter of 2018 and we recorded a net realized foreign exchange loss in aoci of $2.6 million for the fiscal year ended december 30, 2018 . during fiscal year 2016, we designated the 2026 notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. in january 2018, we removed the hedging relationship of our 2026 notes and investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and recognized $2.1 million of unrealized foreign exchange gain in aoci. in april 2018, we designated a portion of the 2026 notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. unrealized translation adjustments from a portion of the 2026 notes were included in the foreign currency translation component of aoci, which offsets translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. the cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. as of december 30, 2018 , the total notional amount of the 2026 notes that was designated to hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries was 216.0 million . the unrealized foreign exchange gain recorded in aoci related to the net investment hedge was $9.3 million for the fiscal year ended december 30, 2018 . during fiscal year 2018 , we designated the april 2021 notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. unrealized translation adjustments from the april 2021 notes were included in the foreign currency translation component of aoci, which offsets translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. the cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. as of december 30, 2018 , the total notional amount of the april 2021 notes that was designated to hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries was 298.7 million . the unrealized foreign exchange gain recorded in aoci related to the net investment hedge was $27.5 million for the fiscal year ended december 30, 2018 . market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 70% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. conversely, when the u.s. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted. 49 table of contents foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 30, 2018 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2018 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.1 million and $1.1 million , with an average of approximately $0.5 million . interest rate risk. as of december 30, 2018 , we had $418.0 million in outstanding borrowings under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. as described above in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources, amounts drawn under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $163.1 million at december 30, 2018 . fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. interest rate risk sensitivity . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 36 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $1.5 million for fiscal year 2019 . (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors for an additional description of this risk. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. 9 table of contents backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required for a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the range and diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. our competitors range from foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to more narrowly focused firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market positions. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $7.7 million and $7.9 million as of december 29, 2019 and december 30, 2018 , respectively, which represents our management's estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. our environmental accrual is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. the cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of december 29, 2019 , we employed approximately 13,000 employees. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of december 29, 2019 , we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,500 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. our business is affected by global economic and political conditions as well as the state of the financial markets, particularly as the united states and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. there can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the united states and internationally. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. while we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new reliable technologies and applications, receive regulatory approvals in a timely manner, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and 11 table of contents differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or divestitures, license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our recent acquisition of cisbio bioassays. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. if, for example, we are unable to successfully commercialize products and services related to significant in-process research and development that we have capitalized, we may have to impair the value of such assets. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. the expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders 12 table of contents that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market, or incur losses for failing to comply with our contractual obligations. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed in the short term, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, settlements of income tax audits, expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, contract termination and litigation costs, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, 13 table of contents changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states; tnt, ups and dhl in europe; and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. we are subject to the rules of the securities and exchange commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten and their derivatives) that may be contained in our products are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. as a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product and other liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product and other liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies in the united states and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of our products are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. 14 table of contents we are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, and our business practices in the united states and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. this requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. a failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. outbreaks of communicable diseases in various parts of china and other countries may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face risks related to health epidemics or outbreaks of communicable diseases. beginning in late 2019, china, as well as several other countries, experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of an upper respiratory infection caused by covid-19, a novel coronavirus strain commonly referred to as coronavirus. the outbreak has severely restricted the level of economic activity in affected areas and may have an adverse impact on sales of certain of our products and services, and/or our suppliers, especially in china. approximately 20% of our net sales from continuing operations in fiscal year 2019 came from china. the extent to which coronavirus impacts our results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot currently be predicted, including the severity of the outbreak and the responsive actions taken to contain it or treat its impact. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2019 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in actual, or from projected, foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures including embargoes and tariffs, such as the tariffs recently implemented by the u.s. government on certain imports from china and by the chinese government on certain imports from the u.s., the extent and impact of which have yet to be fully determined, import or export licensing requirements and the associated potential for delays or restrictions in the shipment of our products or the receipt of products from our suppliers, policies in foreign countries benefiting domestic manufacturers or other policies detrimental to companies headquartered in the united states, 15 table of contents differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, expanded enforcement of laws related to data protection and personal privacy, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or those of our customers, suppliers or other third parties, or cybercrime, resulting in inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information or assets, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to develop, manufacture and provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers, suppliers or other third parties, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems or cybercrime, resulting in inappropriate access to or inadvertent transfer of information or assets, could result in losses or misappropriation of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. we have a substantial amount of debt and other financial obligations. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; exposing us to interest rate risk as a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; increasing our foreign currency risk as a portion of our debt obligations are in denominations other than the us dollar; and 16 table of contents increasing the chances of a downgrade of our debt ratings due to the amount or intended purpose of our debt obligations. in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes due in april 2021 ("april 2021 notes"), senior unsecured notes due in 2026 ("2026 notes") and senior unsecured notes due in 2029 ("2029 notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, the april 2021 notes, the 2026 notes, the 2029 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. discontinuation, reform, or replacement of libor may adversely affect our variable rate debt. our indebtedness under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) for deposits of u.s. dollars. in july 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the authority that regulates libor) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is unclear whether new methods of calculating libor will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. the alternative reference rates committee in the united states has proposed that the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ) is the rate that represents best practice as the alternative to u.s. dollar libor for use in derivatives and other financial contracts that are currently indexed to libor. if libor is discontinued, reformed or replaced, we expect that our indebtedness under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility will be indexed to a replacement benchmark based on sofr. any such change could cause the effective interest rate under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall interest expense to increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could adversely impact our results of operations. nearly 3% of our net sales from continuing operations in fiscal year 2019 came from the united kingdom. following the referendum vote in the united kingdom in june 2016 in favor of leaving the european union, on january 31, 2020, the country formally withdrew from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ). brexit has involved a process of lengthy negotiations between the united kingdom and european union member states to determine the future terms of the united kingdom's relationship with the european union. these negotiations remain ongoing and the potential effects of brexit are uncertain. brexit has caused, and may continue to create, volatility in global stock markets and regional and global economic uncertainty particularly in the united kingdom financial and banking markets. weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm our business, and if such conditions worsen in the united kingdom or in the rest of europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our operations and sales. 17 table of contents any significant weakening of the great britain pound to the u.s. dollar will have an adverse impact on our european revenues due to the importance of our sales in the united kingdom. currency exchange rates in the pound sterling and the euro with respect to each other and the u.s. dollar have already been adversely affected by brexit and that may continue to be the case. in addition, if the united kingdom is unable to negotiate trade agreements with terms as beneficial to the united kingdom as those previously in place under global trade agreements negotiated by the european union on behalf of its members, the united kingdom could face increased trade barriers which could make our doing business in united kingdom more difficult. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 29, 2019 , our total assets included $4.4 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, customer relationships, core technology and technology licenses and in-process research and development, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our discovery &amp; analytical solutions and diagnostics segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several years, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from our financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 24, 2019 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019 that was paid in february 2020 . on january 23, 2020 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 that will be payable in may 2020 . in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 29, 2019 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 70% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in 44 table of contents foreign currencies. as a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures from these currencies, with gains and losses resulting from the forward currency contracts that hedge these exposures. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months , have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from operating activities within our consolidated statements of cash flows. principal hedged currencies include the chinese yuan, euro, british pound, swedish krona, and singapore dollar. we held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as economic hedges, with u.s. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $277.6 million at december 29, 2019 , $223.3 million at december 30, 2018 , and $212.1 million at december 31, 2017 , and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on these foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during each of fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017 . in addition, in connection with certain intercompany loan agreements utilized to finance its acquisitions and stock repurchase program, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of such intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies. we record these hedges at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. the unrealized gains and losses on these hedges, as well as the gains and losses associated with the remeasurement of the intercompany loans, are recognized immediately in interest and other expense, net. the cash flows related to the settlement of these hedges are included in cash flows from financing activities within our consolidated statements of cash flows. the outstanding forward exchange contracts designated as economic hedges, which were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to the settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements, included combined euro notional amounts of 105.8 million and combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $5.6 million as of december 29, 2019 , combined euro notional amounts of 37.3 million and combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $5.7 million as of december 30, 2018 , and combined euro notional amounts of 57.2 million and combined u.s. dollar notional amounts of $1.3 billion as of december 31, 2017 . the net gains and losses on these derivatives, combined with the gains and losses on the remeasurement of the hedged intercompany loans were not material for each of the fiscal years 2019 and 2018 . we paid $1.3 million and $34.1 million during the fiscal years 2019 and 2018 , respectively, from the settlement of these hedges. during fiscal year 2018, we designated a portion of the 2026 notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. unrealized translation adjustments from a portion of the 2026 notes were included in the foreign currency translation component of aoci, which offsets translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. the cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. as of december 29, 2019 , the total notional amount of the 2026 notes that was designated to hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries was 203.3 million . the unrealized foreign exchange gains recorded in aoci related to the net investment hedge were $4.9 million and $9.3 million during the fiscal years 2019 and 2018 , respectively. during fiscal year 2018, we designated the april 2021 notes to hedge our investments in certain foreign subsidiaries. unrealized translation adjustments from the april 2021 notes were included in the foreign currency translation component of aoci, which offsets translation adjustments on the underlying net assets of foreign subsidiaries. the cumulative translation gains or losses will remain in aoci until the foreign subsidiaries are liquidated or sold. as of december 29, 2019 , the total notional amount of the april 2021 notes that was designated to hedge investments in foreign subsidiaries was 299.9 million . the unrealized foreign exchange gains recorded in aoci related to the net investment hedge were $8.0 million and $27.5 million during the fiscal years 2019 and 2018 , respectively. during fiscal year 2019, we entered into a cross-currency swap designated as a net investment hedge to hedge the euro currency exposure of our net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. this agreement is a contract to exchange fixed-rate payments in one currency for fixed-rate payments in another currency. changes in the fair value of this swap are recorded in equity as a component of aoci in the same manner as foreign currency translation adjustments. in assessing the effectiveness of this hedge, we use a method based on changes in spot rates to measure the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on both our foreign subsidiary net investment and the related swap. under this method, changes in the fair value of 45 table of contents the hedging instrument other than those due to changes in the spot rate are initially recorded in aoci as a translation adjustment, and then are amortized into other (income) expense, net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations using a systematic and rational method over the instrument's term. changes in the fair value associated with the effective portion (i.e. those changes due to the spot rate) are recorded in aoci as a translation adjustment and are released and recognized in earnings only upon the sale or liquidation of the hedged net investment. the cross-currency swap has an initial notional value of 197.4 million or $220.0 million and matures on november 15, 2021. interest on the cross-currency swap is payable semi-annually, in euro, on may 15th and november 15th of each year based on the euro notional value and a fixed rate of 2.47% . we receive interest in u.s. dollars on may 15th and november 15th of each year based on the u.s. dollar equivalent of the euro notional value and a fixed rate of 5.00% . on december 29, 2019 , the fair value of the cross-currency swap was $0.3 million , which was recorded in aoci. in connection with the early redemption of the november 2021 notes, on september 11, 2019, we entered into a reverse treasury rate lock agreement with a financial intermediary with a notional amount of $500.0 million . we entered into the reverse treasury rate lock agreement in order to hedge the variability in the redemption payment on the entire principal amount of the november 2021 notes. the reverse treasury rate lock substantively fixed the present value of the forecasted debt make-whole payment, which was priced on october 10, 2019, to mitigate risk associated with the changes in the 2-year u.s. treasury yield. we received $1.0 million upon settlement of the reverse treasury rate lock. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 70% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. conversely, when the u.s. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 29, 2019 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2019 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.1 million and $0.5 million , with an average of approximately $0.3 million . interest rate risk. as of december 29, 2019 , we had $325.4 million in outstanding borrowings under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. as described above in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources, amounts drawn under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $191.9 million at december 29, 2019 . fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. 46 table of contents interest rate risk sensitivity . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 27 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.9 million for fiscal year 2020 . (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 47 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 29, 2002. 35 table of contents in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include inter-company and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. credit risk is minimal as the foreign exchange instruments are contracted with major banking institutions. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. these deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs. effectiveness of these cash flow hedges is measured utilizing the cumulative dollar offset method and is reviewed quarterly. for the year ended december 29, 2002, net losses from hedges reclassified from other comprehensive income to sales and expense totaled $639,000. the notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency contracts was approximately $103.0 million at december 29, 2002 and $280.0 million as of december 30, 2001. at december 29, 2002, the approximate fair value for foreign currency derivative contracts designated as fair value hedges was insignificant. at december 30, 2001, the approximate fair value for foreign currency derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges was $560,000. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. these exposures can take a variety of different forms: (1) as our international sales grow, exposure to volatility in exchange rates could have a material impact on our financial results. reported sales made in foreign currencies by our international subsidiaries, when translated into us dollars for financial reporting purposes, can fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. while such exchange rate fluctuations can impact reported revenues and earnings, such impacts are purely a result of the translation effect and do not impact our short-term cash flows in any material way. (2) in all parts of the world, our subsidiaries do, on occasion, invoice third-party customers in foreign currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the functional currency ). movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency result in both realized and unrealized transaction gains or losses that directly impact our cash flows and our results of operations. (3) our manufacturing and distribution organization is world-wide. accordingly, inventories are manufactured in one location, stored in another, and distributed in a third location. this results in a wide array of intercompany transactions transactions that are billed and paid in many different currencies. our cash flows and our results of operations are therefore directly impacted by fluctuations in these currencies. (4) the cash flow needs of each of our foreign subsidiaries vary through time. accordingly, there may be times when a subsidiary is on the receiving side or the lending side of a short-term advance from either the parent company or another affiliate. such advances, again being denominated in currencies other than a particular entity functional currency, can expose us to fluctuations in exchange rates that can impact both our cash flows and results of operations. (5) in order to repay debt or take advantage of tax saving opportunities, we may remit cash from our foreign locations to the us. when this occurs, we are liquidating foreign currency net asset positions and converting them into dollars. our cash flows and our results of operations are therefore also impacted by such transactions. 36 table of contents we use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. the derivative instruments held by us are not leveraged and are not held for trading purposes. we specifically use forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated assets and liabilities and use a combination of forward and option contracts to hedge anticipated cash flows. our hedging activity is intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. the success of the hedging program depends on forecasts of transaction activity in various currencies. to the extent that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated currency gains or losses. the principal currencies hedged are the british pound, canadian dollar, euro, japanese yen, and singapore dollar. in those currencies where there is a liquid, cost-effective forward market, we maintain hedge coverage between our established minimum and maximum percentages of our anticipated transaction exposure for periods not to exceed one year. the gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of the related exposure. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure we utilize a value-at risk ( var ) model to determine the potential earning/ fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize such exposures through our hedging program. our var computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 29, 2002, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.6 million. this var measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during the four quarters ended december 29, 2002, the var ranged between $0.6 million and $1.6 million, and averaged approximately $1.1 million. interest rate risk. as described earlier, our debt portfolio includes both fixed rate and variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows (as they relate to interest) and our earnings. for the year ended december 29, 2002, we maintained, for a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio, an interest rate swap that served to effectively convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. this interest rate swap was specifically designed to serve as both a fair value hedge on our 6.8% $115 million debt and to modify our cash flows so that our net interest payments would be reduced in the event that interest rates continued to decline. the swap was marked to market in our consolidated financial statements so that fair value movements in the swap were offset by the fair value movement in the debt. this swap position was terminated at the end of 2002 when the 6.8% debt was effectively retired. interest rate risk sensitivity as we have discussed above, we have restructured our debt in the fourth quarter of 2002. accordingly, as of december 29, 2002, 61% of our debt portfolio is composed of fixed rate debt and 39% represented by variable rate debt. there are currently no interest rate swaps or other derivative instruments outstanding intended to hedge fair value, cash flow or earnings exposures. our current debt covenants also require that we maintain at least 50% of our debt portfolio in fixed rate debt as defined in the credit agreement. our current earnings exposure can be summarized as follows: (1) changes in interest rates can cause our interest charges on $315 million in variable rate debt to fluctuate. a 10% increase or approximately 55 basis points in current interest rates would cause additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $1.7 million for fiscal year 2003. (2) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. just as described immediately above, an increase of 10% or approximately 55 basis points in current interest rates can cause our cash outflows to increase by $1.7 million for fiscal year 2003. (3) changes in interest rates can cause the value of our fixed rate debt to change. however, such a value change has no impact on either our earnings or our cash flows unless we determine that we wish to retire this debt in the open market. 37 table of contents forward-looking information and factors affecting future performance this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements as defined in section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. for this purpose, any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. words such as believes, anticipates, plans, expects, will and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements including, among others, the factors set forth below. the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: our operating results may continue to be harmed by cyclical downturns affecting several of the industries into which we sell our products. some of the industries and markets into which we sell our products are cyclical. industry downturns often are characterized by reduced product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and erosion of average selling prices and profits. significant downturns in our customers markets and in general economic conditions have resulted in a reduced demand for several of our products and have hurt our operating results. for example, during 2002, our operating results were adversely affected by downturns in many of the markets we serve, including the pharmaceutical, biomedical, semiconductor and aerospace markets. current economic conditions have caused a decrease in capital spending by many of our customers, which in turn has adversely affected our sales and business. these trends are continuing in 2003. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products could become obsolete and our operating results would suffer. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our sales and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. therefore, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers products. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers needs and future activities, we may invests heavily in research, and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. for example, some of our license agreements are limited to the field of life sciences research, and exclude clinical diagnostics applications. our substantial debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities. we have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. as of december 29, 2002, we had approximately $805.5 million in outstanding indebtedness including $186.5 million in outstanding zero coupon 38 table of contents debentures, excluding obligations under our accounts receivable securitization facility. also, we have $100.0 million in borrowing capacity available to us under our revolving credit facility. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay the principal or interest in respect of our indebtedness. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through acquisitions or licensing, requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete, and placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. a significant portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. as a result, our interest payment obligations on this indebtedness will increase if interest rates increase. our ability to satisfy our obligations, and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. if we are unable to service our debt and fund our business, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional financing or equity capital, restructure or refinance our debt or sell assets. we may not be able to obtain additional financing or refinance existing debt or sell assets on terms acceptable to us or at all. restrictions in our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our 8 7/8% notes may limit our activities. our senior credit facility and the indenture relating to our 8 7/8% notes contain, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company, including restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, make investments, create liens, sell assets, in the case of our restricted subsidiaries, incur obligations that restrict their ability to make dividend or other payments to us, in the case of our restricted subsidiaries, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, create unrestricted subsidiaries, and 39 table of contents consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our senior credit facility. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under our senior credit facility would trigger an event of default under our 8 7/8% notes, and a default under our 8 7/8% notes would trigger an event of default under the senior credit facility and possibly other debt. if an event of default occurs, we may not have sufficient funds available to make the required payments under our indebtedness. if we are unable to repay amounts owed under our senior credit facility, those lenders may be entitled to foreclose on and sell the collateral that secures our borrowings under that agreement. our inability to repay amounts owed under our senior credit facility may also cause a default under other of our obligations including our accounts receivable securitization facility. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented 66% of our total sales in the fiscal year ended december 29, 2002. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we can offer no assurance of our ability to make such adjustments or to make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, 40 table of contents research and development and manufacturing costs. thus, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, adverse changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical, biomedical, semiconductors and aerospace, on which we are particularly dependent, changes in the portions of our sales represented by our various products and customers, delays or problems in the introduction of new products, our competitors announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, increased costs of raw materials or supplies, and changes in the volume or timing of product orders. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing business or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past, and may in the future, supplement our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of packard bioscience company in november 2001. we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: competition among buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory and other approvals, our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, and restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the notes and our new senior credit facility. some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we must improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. if we do not successfully integrate our life sciences and analytical instruments business units, we may not achieve the benefits we anticipate we will derive from the combination of these businesses. in the fourth quarter of 2002, we announced the combination of our life sciences and analytical instruments business units into a new integrated business named life and analytical sciences, representing 66% of our total sales for 2002. this combination is subject to various integration risks, and the integration of these two business units may not achieve the benefits we anticipate it will achieve. as a result of the combination, we may experience a loss of productivity, sales and key personnel. in addition, the information technology systems of the two businesses may not be fully compatible. if any of these potential difficulties were to occur and persist, the business results of our life sciences and analytical instruments reporting segments could suffer. 41 table of contents we are targeting annualized cost savings from the combination of our life sciences and analytical instruments businesses of between $30.0 million and $45.0 million. because we anticipate that the benefits of the combination of these businesses will not be fully realized until 2004, we are targeting cost savings of between $12.0 million and $25.0 million in 2003. while we believe these cost savings to be reasonable, they are estimates that are inherently difficult to predict and are necessarily speculative in nature. in addition, unforeseen factors may offset some or all of the estimated cost savings or other benefits from the integration. as a result, our actual cost savings, if any, could differ or be delayed, compared to our estimates. our loss of licenses may require us to stop selling products or lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses or licenses we may obtain in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. some of the products produced by our life and analytical sciences business unit are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar international agencies. in addition, some of the activities of our fluid sciences business unit are subject to regulation by the united states federal aviation administration. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. obtaining and enforcing patent protection for our proprietary products, processes and technologies may be difficult and expensive; we may infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing and marketing new technologies and products is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents to cover our products. we may not obtain issued patents from any pending or 42 table of contents future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our technology. third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent issued patents owned by or licensed to us or claim that our products and operations infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition to our patents, we possess an array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the measures that we employ to protect this technology and these rights may not be adequate. moreover, in some cases, the licensor can terminate a license or convert it to a non-exclusive arrangement if we fail to meet specified performance targets. we may incur significant expense in any legal proceedings to protect our proprietary rights or to defend infringement claims by third parties. in addition, claims of third parties against us could result in awards of substantial damages or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or abroad. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 29, 2002, our total assets included $1.4 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. these assets have historically been amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. in connection with our adoption of sfas no. 142, we discontinued the amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets beginning in fiscal 2002. instead, we will test these items, at a minimum, on an annual basis for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. during the second quarter of 2002, we completed our transitional implementation of the impairment testing provisions of sfas no. 142, which resulted in a $117.8 million before-and-after-tax charge for goodwill associated with our lighting business. in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 142, we took this charge as the effect of an accounting change as of the beginning of fiscal 2002. future impairment testing may result in additional intangible asset write-offs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 43 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 28, 2003. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include inter-company and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. credit risk is minimal as the foreign exchange instruments are contracted with major banking institutions. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs. for the year ended december 28, 2003, we did not engage in hedges designated as cash flow. the notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency contracts was approximately $168.5 million at december 28, 2003 and $103.0 million as of december 29, 2002, and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts designated as fair value hedges was insignificant. the duration of the foreign currency derivative contracts is generally 30 day for 2003. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. these exposures can take a variety of different forms: (1) as our international sales grow, exposure to volatility in exchange rates could have a material impact on our financial results. reported sales made in foreign currencies by our international subsidiaries, when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes, can fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. while exchange rate fluctuations can impact reported revenues and earnings, this impact is purely a result of the translation effect and does not materially impact our short-term cash flows. (2) in all parts of the world, our subsidiaries, on occasion, invoice third-party customers in foreign currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business. we refer to primary business currency as the functional currencies. movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency 37 table of contents result in both realized and unrealized transaction gains or losses that directly impact our cash flows and our results of operations. (3) our manufacturing and distribution organization is worldwide. accordingly, inventories may be manufactured in one location, stored in another, and distributed in a third location. this results in a wide array of intercompany transactions transactions that are billed and paid in many different currencies. our cash flows and our results of operations are therefore directly impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates of currencies involved. (4) the cash flow needs of each of our foreign subsidiaries vary through time. accordingly, there may be times when a subsidiary lends to or borrows from either the parent company or another affiliate. these advances, again being denominated in currencies other than a particular entity functional currency, can expose it to fluctuations in exchange rates that can impact both our cash flows and results of operations. (5) in order to repay debt or satisfy operational needs, we may remit cash from our foreign locations to the united states. when this occurs, we are liquidating foreign currency net asset positions and converting them into united states dollars. our cash flows and our results of operations are therefore also impacted by these transactions. we use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. the derivative instruments held by us are not leveraged and are not held for trading purposes. we specifically use forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated assets and liabilities and use a combination of forward and option contracts to hedge anticipated cash flows. our hedging activity is intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. the success of our hedging program depends on forecasts of transaction activity in various currencies. to the extent that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated currency gains or losses. the principal currencies hedged are the british pound, canadian dollar, euro, japanese yen, and singapore dollar. in those currencies where there is a liquid, cost-effective forward market, we maintain hedge coverage between our established minimum and maximum percentages of our anticipated transaction exposure for periods not to exceed one year. the gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of the related exposure. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 28, 2003, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million. this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters of fiscal 2003, the value-at-risk ranged between $0.1 million and $1.0 million, and averaged approximately $0.5 million. interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes both fixed rate and variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows (as they relate to interest) and our earnings. in january 2004, we initiated, for a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio, interest rate swaps that in effect convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. these swaps have been designated as fair value hedges. these swaps will be marked to market in our consolidated financial statements so that fair value movements in these swaps will be offset by the fair value movement in the debt. interest rate risk sensitivity as of december 28, 2003, our debt portfolio is comprised of 55% fixed rate debt and 45% variable rate debt. after giving effect to the interest rate swap entered into in january 2004, 37% of our debt portfolio is fixed and 63% is variable. our current debt covenants require that we 38 table of contents maintain at least 30% of our debt portfolio in fixed rate debt as defined in the credit agreement. our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (1) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt comprised of $245 million of term loan and $100 million of swapped 8 7/8% notes to fluctuate. a 10% increase or approximately 40 basis points in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $1.4 million for fiscal year 2004. (2) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10% or approximately 40 basis points in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $1.4 million for fiscal year 2004. (3) changes in interest rates can cause the value of our fixed rate debt to change. however, such a value change has no impact on either our earnings or our cash flows unless we determine that we wish to retire this debt in the open market. forward-looking information and factors affecting future performance the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: our operating results may continue to be harmed by cyclical downturns affecting several of the industries into which we sell our products. some of the industries and markets into which we sell our products are cyclical. industry downturns are often characterized by reduced product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and erosion of average selling prices and profits. significant downturns in our customers markets and in general economic conditions have resulted in a reduced demand for several of our products and have hurt our operating results. for example, during 2003, our operating results were adversely affected by downturns in many of the markets we serve, including the pharmaceutical, biomedical, semiconductor and aerospace markets. current economic conditions have caused a decrease in capital spending by many of our customers, which in turn has adversely affected our sales and business. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our products could become obsolete and our operating results would suffer. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products could become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our sales and operating results would suffer. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. therefore, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers products. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. 39 table of contents in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. for example, some of our license agreements are limited to the field of life sciences research, and exclude clinical diagnostics applications. our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities. as of december 28, 2003, we had approximately $549.5 million in outstanding indebtedness, excluding obligations under our accounts receivable securitization facility. our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay the principal or interest in respect of our indebtedness. we have $100.0 million in additional borrowing capacity available to us under our revolving credit facility. we may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing our total leverage. our leverage could have negative consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through acquisitions or licensing, requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we compete, and placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. a significant portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates. as a result, our interest payment obligations on this indebtedness will increase if interest rates increase. our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. if we are unable to service our debt and fund our business, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional financing or equity capital, restructure or refinance our debt or sell assets. we may not be able to obtain additional financing or refinance existing debt or sell assets on terms acceptable to us or at all. restrictions in our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our 8 7/8% notes may limit our activities. our senior credit facility and the indenture relating to our 8 7/8% notes contain, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company, including restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, make investments, create liens, sell assets, 40 table of contents in the case of our restricted subsidiaries, incur obligations that restrict their ability to make dividend or other payments to us, in the case of our restricted subsidiaries, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, create unrestricted subsidiaries, and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our senior credit facility. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. also, an acceleration of the debt under our senior credit facility would trigger an event of default under our 8 7/8% notes, and a default under our 8 7/8% notes would trigger an event of default under the senior credit facility and possibly other debt. if an event of default occurs, we may not have sufficient funds available to make the required payments under our indebtedness. if we are unable to repay amounts owed under our senior credit facility, those lenders may be entitled to foreclose on and sell the collateral that secures our borrowings under that agreement. our inability to repay amounts owed under our senior credit facility may also cause a default under other of our obligations including our accounts receivable securitization facility. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented more than 50% of our total sales in the fiscal year ended december 28, 2003. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. 41 table of contents our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we can offer no assurance of our ability to make such adjustments or to make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our significant sales, research and development and manufacturing costs. thus, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, adverse changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical, biomedical, semiconductors and aerospace, on which we are particularly dependent, changes in the portions of our sales represented by our various products and customers, delays or problems in the introduction of new products, our competitors announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, increased costs of raw materials or supplies, and changes in the volume or timing of product orders. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing business or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past, and may in the future, supplement our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of packard bioscience company in november 2001. we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: competition among buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory and other approvals, our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, and restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness, including the indenture governing the notes and our new senior credit facility. some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we must improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. 42 table of contents if we do not successfully integrate our life sciences and analytical instruments business units, we may not achieve the benefits we anticipate we will derive from the combination of these businesses. in 2003, we achieved in excess of the original range of $12 to $25 million in pre-tax cost savings from the combination of our life sciences and analytical instruments businesses, announced in the fourth quarter of 2002. in 2004, we are targeting additional pre-tax cost savings of between $5.0 million and $20.0 million, for a combined pre-tax cost savings of between $30.0 million and $45.0 million relative to fiscal 2002 cost levels. while we believe these cost savings to be reasonable, they are estimates that are inherently difficult to predict, are necessarily speculative in nature and are subject to various integration risks. the integration risks include the possibility that we may experience a loss of productivity, sales and key personnel and that the information technology systems of these two businesses may not be fully compatible. if any of the potential difficulties were to occur and persist, the business results of our life and analytical sciences reporting segment could suffer. in addition, unforeseen factors may offset some or all of the estimated cost savings or other benefits from the integration. as a result of these integration risks and possible unforeseen factors, our actual cost savings, if any, could differ or be delayed, compared to our estimates. moreover, our capability to more fully capitalize, through their combination, on the strengths of our former life sciences and analytical instruments businesses sales, service and research and development organizations may be compromised. our loss of licenses may require us to stop selling products or lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses or licenses we may obtain in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. some of the products produced by our life and analytical sciences business unit are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar international agencies. in addition, some of the activities of our fluid sciences business unit are subject to regulation by the united states federal aviation administration. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution. in addition, we could be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. 43 table of contents changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. obtaining and enforcing patent protection for our proprietary products, processes and technologies may be difficult and expensive; we may infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing and marketing new technologies and products is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents to cover our products. we may not obtain issued patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be broad enough to protect our technology. third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent issued patents owned by or licensed to us or claim that our products and operations infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition to our patents, we possess an array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. the measures that we employ to protect this technology and these rights may not be adequate. moreover, in some cases, the licensor can terminate a license or convert it to a non-exclusive arrangement if we fail to meet specified performance targets. we may incur significant expense in any legal proceedings to protect our proprietary rights or to defend infringement claims by third parties. in addition, claims of third parties against us could result in awards of substantial damages or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or abroad. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 28, 2003, our total assets included $1.5 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. these assets have historically been amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. in connection with our adoption of sfas no. 142, we discontinued the amortization of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets beginning in fiscal 2002. instead, we test these items, at a minimum, on an annual basis for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. future impairment testing may result in additional intangible asset write-offs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 44 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of january 2, 2005. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include inter-company and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. credit risk is minimal as the foreign exchange instruments are contracted with major banking institutions. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs. for the year ended january 2, 2005, we did not engage in any designated cash flow hedges. the notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency contracts was approximately $166.8 million at january 2, 2005 and $168.5 million as of december 28, 2003, and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the duration of the foreign currency derivative contracts was generally 30 days for 2004. 41 table of contents market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. these exposures can take a variety of different forms: (1) as our international sales grow, exposure to volatility in exchange rates could have a material impact on our financial results. reported sales made in foreign currencies by our international subsidiaries, when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes, can fluctuate due to exchange rate movements. while exchange rate fluctuations can impact reported revenues and earnings, this impact is purely a result of the translation effect and does not materially impact our short-term cash flows. (2) in all parts of the world our subsidiaries, on occasion, invoice third-party customers in foreign currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business. we refer to our subsidiaries primary business currencies as the functional currencies. movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency result in both realized and unrealized transaction gains or losses that directly impact our cash flows and our results of operations. (3) our manufacturing and distribution organization is worldwide. accordingly, inventories may be manufactured in one location, stored in another, and distributed in a third location. this results in a wide array of intercompany transactions transactions that are billed and paid in many different currencies. our cash flows and our results of operations are therefore directly impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates of currencies involved. (4) the cash flow needs of each of our foreign subsidiaries vary through time. accordingly, there may be times when a subsidiary lends to or borrows from either the parent company or another affiliate. these advances, again being denominated in currencies other than a particular entity functional currency, can expose it to fluctuations in exchange rates that can impact both our cash flows and results of operations. (5) in order to repay debt or satisfy operational needs, we may remit cash from our foreign locations to the united states. when this occurs, we are liquidating foreign currency net asset positions and converting them into united states dollars. our cash flows and our results of operations are therefore also impacted by these transactions. we use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. the derivative instruments held by us are not leveraged and are not held for trading purposes. we specifically use forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated assets and liabilities and use a combination of forward and option contracts to hedge anticipated cash flows. our hedging activity is intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. the success of our hedging program depends on forecasts of transaction activity in various currencies. to the extent that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated currency gains or losses. the principal currencies we hedge are the british pound, canadian dollar, euro, japanese yen, and singapore dollar. in those currencies where there is a liquid, cost-effective forward market, we maintain hedge coverage between our established minimum and maximum percentages of our anticipated transaction exposure for periods not to exceed one year. the gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of the related exposure. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of january 2, 2005, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the 42 table of contents underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million. this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal 2004, the value-at-risk ranged between $0.1 million and $0.3 million, and averaged approximately $0.2 million. interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes both fixed rate and variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. in january 2005 and january 2004, we effected, for a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio, interest rate swaps that in effect convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. these swaps have been designated as fair value hedges. these swaps are marked to market in our consolidated financial statements. the fair value movements in these swaps are offset by the fair value movement in the debt. interest rate risk sensitivity as of january 2, 2005, our debt portfolio was comprised of $304.6 million fixed rate debt and $70.0 million of variable rate debt. after giving effect to the interest rate swaps entered into in january 2004 and january 2005, $104.6 million of our debt portfolio is fixed and $270.0 million is variable. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $197.5 million at january 2, 2005. our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (1) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt comprised of $70 million of term loan and $200 million of swapped 8 7 / 8 % notes to fluctuate. a 10% increase, or approximately 64 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $1.7 million for fiscal year 2005. (2) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 64 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $1.7 million for fiscal year 2005. (3) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest received to fluctuate. (4) changes in interest rates can cause the value of our fixed rate debt to change. however, such a value change has no impact on either our earnings or our cash flows unless we determine that we wish to retire this debt in the open market. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. therefore, we must anticipate industry trends and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers products. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. for example, some of our license agreements are limited to the field of life sciences research, and exclude clinical diagnostics applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing business, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past, and may in the future, supplement our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of elcos ag in february 2005. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory an other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. 14 table of contents some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we must improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems or cultural differences. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents that issue may be narrower that what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. 15 table of contents our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or to make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development, and manufacturing costs. thus, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, adverse changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, on which we are particularly dependent, changes in the portions of our sales represented by our various products and customers, delays or problems in the introduction of new products, our competitors announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, increased costs of raw materials or supplies, and changes in the volume or timing of product orders. if we are unable to produce an adequate quantity of products, particularly of our digital x-ray detectors, to meet our customers demands, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. we have an established global manufacturing base with facilities in multiple locations around the world. each of these facilities faces risks to its production capacity that may relate to natural disasters, labor relations or regulatory compliance. in addition, in any of these facilities, particularly our optoelectronics amorphous silicon facility in santa clara, california, we may not manage the manufacturing or production processes at expected levels, we may fail to anticipate or act on the need to increase the production capacity, or we may be unable to quickly resolve technical manufacturing issues that arise from time to time. any of these risks could cause our revenue growth to be adversely affected. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. some of the products produced by our life and analytical sciences segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration ( fda ) and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. 16 table of contents economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total sales in the fiscal year ended january 1, 2006. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees. restrictions in our senior unsecured credit facility may limit our activities. our senior unsecured credit facility contains, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. our new senior unsecured credit facility includes restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict their ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. 17 table of contents we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our senior unsecured credit facility. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions in our senior unsecured credit facility may result in an event of default under that facility, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that facility, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of january 1, 2006, our total assets included $1.4 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing on an annual basis for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are evaluated for impairment should discrete events occur that call into question the recoverability of the intangible. adverse changes in our business or the failure to grow our life and analytical sciences business may result in impairment of our intangible assets which could adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of january 1, 2006. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include inter-company and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 44 table of contents 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. credit risk is minimal as the foreign exchange instruments are contracted with major banking institutions. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs. for the year ended january 1, 2006, we did not engage in any designated cash flow hedges. the notional amount of the outstanding foreign currency contracts was approximately $197.6 million at january 1, 2006 and $166.8 million as of january 2, 2005, and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the duration of the foreign currency derivative contracts was generally 30 days for 2005. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. as a multinational corporation, we are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. these exposures can take a variety of different forms: (1) as our international sales grow, exposure to volatility in exchange rates could have a material impact on our financial results. reported sales made in foreign currencies by our international subsidiaries, when translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes, can fluctuate due to exchange rate movements. while exchange rate fluctuations can impact reported revenues and earnings, this impact is purely a result of the translation effect and does not materially impact our short-term cash flows. (2) in all parts of the world, our subsidiaries, on occasion, invoice third-party customers in foreign currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business. we refer to our subsidiaries primary business currencies as the functional currencies. movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency result in both realized and unrealized transaction gains or losses that directly impact our cash flows and our results of operations. (3) our manufacturing and distribution organization is worldwide. accordingly, inventories may be manufactured in one location, stored in another, and distributed in a third location. this results in a wide array of intercompany transactions transactions that are billed and paid in many different currencies. our cash flows and our results of operations are therefore directly impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates of currencies involved. (4) the cash flow needs of each of our foreign subsidiaries vary through time. accordingly, there may be times when a subsidiary lends to or borrows from either the parent company or another affiliate. these advances, again being denominated in currencies other than a particular entity functional currency, can expose it to fluctuations in exchange rates that can impact both our cash flows and results of operations. (5) in order to repay debt or satisfy operational needs, we may remit cash from our foreign locations to the united states. when this occurs, we are liquidating foreign currency net asset positions and converting them into united states dollars. our cash flows and our results of operations are therefore also impacted by these transactions. we may use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. the derivative instruments held by us are not leveraged and are not held for trading purposes. we specifically use forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated assets and liabilities and may use a combination of forward and option contracts to hedge anticipated cash flows. our hedging activity is intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in foreign currencies. the success of our hedging program depends on forecasts of transaction activity in various currencies. to the extent 45 table of contents that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, we could experience unanticipated currency gains or losses. the principal currencies we hedge are the british pound, canadian dollar, euro, japanese yen, and singapore dollar. in those currencies where there is a liquid, cost-effective forward market, we maintain hedge coverage between our established minimum and maximum percentages of our anticipated transaction exposure for periods not to exceed one year. the gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the value of the related exposure. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of january 1, 2006, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million. this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal 2005, the value-at-risk ranged between $0.1 million and $0.7 million, and averaged approximately $0.3 million. interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. in january 2005 and january 2004, we effected, for a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio, interest rate swaps that in effect convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. these swaps were designated as fair value hedges, and were marked to market in our consolidated financial statements, while they remained outstanding. the fair value movements in these swaps were offset by the fair value movement in the debt. interest rate risk sensitivity . as of january 1, 2006, our debt portfolio was comprised of $244.4 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $502.3 million at january 1 2006. our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (1) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $244.4 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10%, or approximately 31 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $.8 million for fiscal year 2006. (2) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 31 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $.8 million for fiscal year 2006. (3) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest received to fluctuate. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential sales revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. for example, some of our license agreements are limited to the field of life sciences research, and exclude clinical diagnostics applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past, and may in the future, supplement our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: competition among buyers and licensees, 15 table of contents the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we must improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, or cultural differences. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new 16 table of contents products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. thus, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, adverse changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, on which we are particularly dependent, changes in the portions of our sales represented by our various products and customers, delays or problems in the introduction of new products, our competitors announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, increased costs of raw materials or supplies, and changes in the volume or timing of product orders. if we are unable to produce an adequate quantity of products to meet our customers demands, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. we have an established global manufacturing base with facilities in multiple locations around the world. each of these facilities faces risks to its production capacity that may relate to natural disasters, labor relations or regulatory compliance. in addition, in any of these facilities, we may not manage the manufacturing or production processes at expected levels, we may fail to anticipate or act on the need to increase the production capacity, or we may be unable to quickly resolve technical manufacturing issues that arise from time to time. any of these risks could cause our revenue growth to be adversely affected. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. some of the products produced by our life and analytical sciences segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration ( fda ) and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and 17 table of contents market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total sales in the fiscal year ended december 31, 2006. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees. restrictions in our senior unsecured credit facility may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility contains, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility includes restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict their ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, 18 table of contents enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our senior unsecured revolving credit facility. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility may result in an event of default under that facility, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that facility, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 31, 2006, our total assets included $1.5 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing on an annual basis for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are evaluated for impairment should discrete events occur that call into question the recoverability of the intangible. adverse changes in our business or the failure to grow our life and analytical sciences segment may result in impairment of our intangible assets which could adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 31, 2006. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. credit risk is insignificant as the foreign exchange instruments are contracted with major banking institutions. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs. for the year ended december 31, 2006, we did not engage in any designated cash flow hedges. principal hedged currencies include the british pound (gbp), canadian dollar (cad), euro (eur), japanese yen (jpy), and singapore dollar (sgd). we held forward foreign exchange contracts with u.s. equivalent notional amounts totaling $174.8 million at december 31, 2006 and $197.6 million as of january 1, 2006. the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on foreign currency derivative contracts are not material and the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days for 2006. we do not enter into derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. 49 table of contents market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 62% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the u.s resulting in a natural hedge. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 31, 2006, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million. this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal 2006 the value-at-risk was $0.1 million, with an average of approximately $0.1 million. interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. interest rate risk sensitivity . as of december 31, 2006, our debt portfolio consisted of $151.8 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $191.1 million at december 31, 2006. our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (1) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $151.8 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10%, or approximately 42 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.6 million for fiscal year 2007. (2) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 42 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.6 million for fiscal year 2007. (3) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest received to fluctuate. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide 10 table of contents array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. we are currently involved in several lawsuits involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. see item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of these matters. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. this affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. in our life and analytical sciences segment, we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. we expect the proportion of large competitors in this reporting segment to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. we do not believe any single competitor competes directly with our optoelectronics segment across its full product range. however, we do compete with specialized manufacturing companies in the manufacturing and sale of specialty flashtubes and ultra specialty lighting sources, photo detectors and photodiodes, and switched power supplies. competition is based on price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, and product reliability and quality. we believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. research and development research and development expenditures were approximately $113.1 million during fiscal 2007, approximately $99.7 million during fiscal 2006, and approximately $87.4 million during fiscal 2005. the fiscal year 2007 included an in-process research and development ( ipr&amp;d ) charge of $1.5 million related to the evotec and euroscreen acquisitions. 11 table of contents we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 primarily toward genetic screening, biodiscovery, and analytical sciences markets within our life and analytical sciences segment, and medical imaging and photonics within our optoelectronics segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect our research and development spending to increase on an absolute basis and in line with our growth in sales during fiscal 2008, and to continue to emphasize these same markets. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $4.2 million as of december 30, 2007, which represents our management estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. this amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. these cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. in addition, we accrued $9.7 million during the second quarter of 2007 for a fire that occurred within our life and analytical sciences facility in boston, massachusetts in march 2005, representing our management estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters. we paid $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. we anticipate that the remaining payments of $5.8 million will be completed by the end of fiscal year 2008. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of december 30, 2007, we employed approximately 8,700 employees. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers councils. as of december 30, 2007, we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,700 union and workers council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. 12 table of contents financial information about reporting segments the assets and expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, accounting and finance, human resources, property and insurance management, information technology, treasury and other management and compliance costs, have been included as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when such costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments. the table below sets forth sales and operating income (loss) by reporting segment for the 2007, 2006 and 2005 fiscal years: 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands) life &amp; analytical sciences sales $ 1,327,246 $ 1,144,562 $ 1,081,104 operating income from continuing operations 128,779 115,372 110,228 optoelectronics sales 460,085 401,796 392,727 operating income from continuing operations 76,473 70,021 58,405 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (37,086 ) (31,991 ) (27,682 ) continuing operations sales $ 1,787,331 $ 1,546,358 $ 1,473,831 operating income from continuing operations 168,166 153,402 140,951 interest and other expense, net (see note 5) 16,877 2,666 74,291 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 151,289 $ 150,736 $ 66,660 discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table. additional information relating to our reporting segments for the 2007, 2006 and 2005 fiscal years is as follows: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands) life and analytical sciences $ 61,739 $ 50,613 $ 46,217 $ 17,713 $ 25,973 $ 15,592 optoelectronics 14,682 16,522 19,712 26,160 12,003 11,798 corporate 1,576 2,049 1,069 3,105 6,497 603 continuing operations $ 77,997 $ 69,184 $ 66,998 $ 46,978 $ 44,473 $ 27,993 discontinued operations $ 82 $ 332 $ 7,272 $ 2 $ 109 $ 3,065 total assets december 30, 2007 december 31, 2006 (in thousands) life and analytical sciences $ 2,596,873 $ 2,208,922 optoelectronics 300,035 259,829 corporate 46,411 39,489 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 6,018 2,082 total assets $ 2,949,337 $ 2,510,322 13 table of contents financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal 2007, we had $1,127.8 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 63% of our total sales. during fiscal 2007, we derived approximately 76% of our international sales from our life and analytical sciences segment, and approximately 24% of our international sales from our optoelectronics segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth, or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential sales revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. 14 table of contents we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past, and may in the future, supplement our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as evotec technologies gmbh and euroscreen products s.a., acquired in january 2007, improvision ltd., acquired in march 2007, the remaining minority interest of perkinelmer india pvt. ltd., acquired in june 2007 and viacell, inc., acquired in november 2007. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we must improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences or difficulties in predicting financial results. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses in evaluating possible acquisitions that we ultimately do not acquire, which expenses then may adversely impact our profitability. if the markets into which we sell our products decline, or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions or uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly sales and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers markets, general economic conditions or cuts in government funding would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, 15 table of contents may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. thus, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, 16 table of contents decline in general economic conditions or government funding, adverse income tax audit settlements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our sales represented by our various products and customers, delays or problems in the introduction of new products, our competitors announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, increased costs of raw materials or supplies, and changes in the volume or timing of product orders. disruptions in the supply of raw materials and supplies from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials and supplies that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials and supplies usually could be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery, but a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials or supplies is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. if we are unable to produce an adequate quantity of products to meet our customers demands, our revenue growth may be adversely affected. we have an established global manufacturing base with facilities in multiple locations around the world. each of these facilities faces risks to its production capacity that may relate to natural disasters, labor relations or regulatory compliance. in addition, in any of these facilities, we may not manage the manufacturing or production processes at expected levels, we may fail to anticipate or act on the need to increase the production capacity, or we may be unable to quickly resolve technical manufacturing issues that arise from time to time. any of these risks could cause our revenue growth to be adversely affected. the manufacture and sale of products may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we believe that our current liability insurance coverage is adequate for our present clinical and commercial activities, however we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. 17 table of contents if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. some of the products produced by our life and analytical sciences segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration ( fda ) and similar international agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. other aspects of our operations are subject to regulation by different government agencies in the united states and other countries. if we fail to comply with those regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including our genetic screening business, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total sales in the fiscal year ended december 30, 2007. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, 18 table of contents adverse income tax audit settlements, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute our leadership succession plan. the inability to successfully transition these and other key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. restrictions in our credit facilities may limit our activities. our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our unsecured interim credit facility each contain, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our unsecured interim credit facility each include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict their ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions in our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility may result in an event of default under that facility, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that facility, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. 19 table of contents our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 30, 2007, our total assets included $1.8 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least on an annual basis for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are evaluated for impairment should discrete events occur that call into question the recoverability of the intangible. adverse changes in our business or the failure to grow our life and analytical sciences segment may result in impairment of our intangible assets which could adversely affect our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 30, 2007. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. credit risk and market risk are insignificant as the foreign exchange instruments are contracted with major banking institutions. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. principal hedged currencies include the british pound (gbp), canadian dollar (cad), euro (eur), japanese yen (jpy), and singapore dollar (sgd). we held forward foreign exchange contracts with u.s. equivalent notional amounts totaling $105.2 million at december 30, 2007 and $174.8 million as of december 31, 2006, and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts entered into in 2007 was generally 30 days. 54 table of contents in addition, during the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into forward interest rate contracts, with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million, a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, and a future dated settlement to coincide with our highly probable debt issuance in 2008. these contracts are intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our highly probable debt issuance in 2008. we had accumulated net derivative losses of $5.3 million, net of taxes, in other comprehensive income as of december 30, 2007, related to these cash flow hedges. the net derivative losses will be reclassified into net earnings when the hedged exposure affects net earnings. no cash flow hedges were discontinued and no ineffectiveness was recognized during 2007. we do not enter into derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 63% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in a natural hedge. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 30, 2007, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million. this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal 2007, the value-at-risk ranged between zero and $0.2 million, with an average of approximately $0.1 million. interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. 55 table of contents interest rate risk sensitivity . as of december 30, 2007, our debt portfolio consisted of $516.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $203.3 million at december 30, 2007. our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (1) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $516.0 million of revolving and interim debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10%, or approximately 55 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $2.8 million for fiscal year 2008. (2) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 55 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $2.8 million for fiscal year 2008. (3) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest received to fluctuate. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. we are currently involved in several lawsuits involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. see item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of these matters. 13 table of contents backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. this affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. in our life and analytical sciences segment, we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. we expect the proportion of large competitors in this reporting segment to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. we do not believe any single competitor competes directly with our optoelectronics segment across its full product range. however, we do compete with specialized manufacturing companies in the manufacturing and sale of specialty flashtubes for industrial applications and ultra specialty lighting sources, photo detectors and photodiodes, and switched power supplies. competition is based on price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, and product reliability and quality. we believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. research and development research and development expenditures were approximately $108.1 million during fiscal year 2008, approximately $105.5 million during fiscal year 2007, and approximately $93.4 million during fiscal year 2006. the fiscal year 2007 amount included an in-process research and development ( ipr&amp;d ) charge of $1.5 million related to the acquisitions of evotec technologies gmbh and euroscreen products, s.a. in january 2007. we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 primarily toward genetic screening, bio-discovery, and analytical sciences markets within our life and analytical sciences segment, and medical imaging and photonics markets within our optoelectronics segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2009, and to continue to emphasize the genetic screening, bio-discovery, and medical imaging markets within our human health segment, and the analytical sciences market within our environmental health segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. 14 table of contents we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $4.0 million as of december 28, 2008, which represents our management estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. this amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. these cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. in addition, we accrued $9.7 million during fiscal year 2007 for a fire that occurred within our life and analytical sciences facility in boston, massachusetts in march 2005, representing our management estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters. we paid $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. we anticipate that the remaining payments of $4.2 million will be completed by the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of december 28, 2008, we employed approximately 7,900 employees in continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers councils. as of december 28, 2008, we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,000 union and workers council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. financial information about reporting segments the assets and expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, accounting and finance, human resources, property and insurance management, information technology, treasury and other management and compliance costs, have been included as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when such costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments. 15 table of contents the table below sets forth sales and operating income (loss) by reporting segment for the 2008, 2007 and 2006 fiscal years: 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands) life &amp; analytical sciences sales $ 1,512,556 $ 1,315,591 $ 1,129,182 operating income from continuing operations 138,627 129,558 112,655 optoelectronics sales 424,909 386,783 348,503 operating income from continuing operations 91,164 71,381 66,063 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (36,821 ) (37,086 ) (31,991 ) continuing operations sales $ 1,937,465 $ 1,702,374 $ 1,477,685 operating income from continuing operations 192,970 163,853 146,727 interest and other expense, net (see note 5) 45,609 16,877 2,666 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 147,361 $ 146,976 $ 144,061 discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table. additional information relating to our reporting segments for the 2008, 2007 and 2006 fiscal years is as follows: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands) life and analytical sciences $ 72,534 $ 61,689 $ 50,575 $ 25,019 $ 17,575 $ 25,973 optoelectronics 14,223 13,246 15,097 15,105 23,834 11,122 corporate 1,550 1,576 2,049 3,201 3,105 6,497 continuing operations $ 88,307 $ 76,511 $ 67,721 $ 43,325 $ 44,514 $ 43,592 discontinued operations $ 5,450 $ 1,568 $ 1,795 $ 2,079 $ 2,466 $ 881 total assets december 28, 2008 december 30, 2007 (in thousands) life and analytical sciences $ 2,608,731 $ 2,589,439 optoelectronics 281,034 269,485 corporate 21,433 46,409 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 20,569 44,004 total assets $ 2,931,767 $ 2,949,337 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2008, we had $1,185.1 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2008, we derived 16 table of contents approximately 80% of our international sales from our life and analytical sciences segment, and approximately 20% of our international sales from our optoelectronics segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline, or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions or uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly sales and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, general economic conditions or cuts in government funding would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic, political and other risks. we have operations in many parts of the world. the health of the global economy has a significant impact on our business. for example, the current tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for customers to obtain financing for their operations, resulting in a material decrease in the orders we receive. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. in addition, our global manufacturing facilities face risks to their production capacity that may relate to natural disasters, labor relations or regulatory compliance. while some of these risks can be hedged using financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. in addition, our ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory 17 table of contents expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth, or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential sales revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, or make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as viacell, inc., acquired in november 2007, the newborn metabolic screening business from pediatrix medical group, inc., acquired in february 2008, labmetrix technologies s.a., acquired in march 2008, vaconics lighting, inc., acquired in may 2008, and arnel, inc., acquired in december 2008. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences or difficulties in predicting financial results. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses in evaluating possible acquisitions that we ultimately do not acquire, which expenses then may adversely impact our profitability. 18 table of contents we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. thus, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, 19 table of contents competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, decline in general economic conditions or government funding, adverse income tax audit settlements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our sales represented by our various products and customers, delays or problems in the introduction of new products, our competitors announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, increased costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, and changes in the volume or timing of product orders. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states, tnt, ups and dhl in europe and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the u.s. postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components, and supplies from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and supplies that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and supplies could usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or supplies is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the manufacture and sale of products may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. 20 table of contents if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. some of the products produced by our life and analytical sciences segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar agencies internationally. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. other aspects of our operations are subject to regulation by different government agencies in the united states and other countries. if we fail to comply with those regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total sales in the fiscal year ended december 28, 2008. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, 21 table of contents differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in our information technology systems or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers and suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. restrictions in our credit facility and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities. our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 6% senior unsecured notes contain, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these debt instruments include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict their ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. 22 table of contents our failure to comply with any of these restrictions in our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 6% senior unsecured notes may result in an event of default under either or both of these debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under either or both debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 28, 2008, our total assets included $1.8 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least on an annual basis for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are evaluated for impairment should discrete events occur that call into question the recoverability of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business or the failure to grow our life and analytical sciences segment may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several quarters, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; the financial performance of the major end markets that we target; the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on january 28, 2009, we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 28, 2008. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. credit risk and market risk are insignificant as the foreign exchange instruments are contracted with major 61 table of contents banking institutions. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive (loss) income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. principal hedged currencies include the british pound (gbp), canadian dollar (cad), euro (eur), japanese yen (jpy), and singapore dollar (sgd). we held forward foreign exchange contracts with u.s. equivalent notional amounts totaling $160.8 million at december 28, 2008 and $105.2 million as of december 30, 2007, and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts entered into in fiscal year 2008 was generally 30 days. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%. these contracts were intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our expected debt issuance. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million, upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. as a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized derivative losses of $17.5 million, in interest and other expense. before amortization expense, we had accumulated derivative losses of $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, in other comprehensive (loss) income as of december 28, 2008 and $5.3 million, net of taxes of $3.5 million, as of december 30, 2007, related to these cash flow hedges. the derivative losses are amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. during fiscal year 2008, $1.2 million of these derivative losses were amortized into interest expense. once established, cash flow hedges are generally recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income until maturity unless an anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur. discontinued or dedesignated cash flow hedges are immediately settled with counterparties, and the related accumulated derivative gains or losses are recognized into interest expense on the consolidated financial statements. we did not recognize any ineffectiveness during fiscal year 2008 or fiscal year 2007. we do not enter into derivatives for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in a natural hedge. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted. 62 table of contents foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 28, 2008, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.1 million. this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2008, the value-at-risk ranged between $0.3 million and $0.8 million, with an average of approximately $0.5 million. interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%. these contracts were intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our expected debt issuance. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million, upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. as a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized derivative losses of $17.5 million, in interest and other expense. before amortization expense, we had accumulated derivative losses of $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, in other comprehensive (loss) income as of december 28, 2008 and $5.3 million, net of taxes of $3.5 million, as of december 30, 2007, related to these cash flow hedges. the derivative losses are amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. during fiscal year 2008, $1.2 million of these derivative losses were amortized into interest expense. once established, cash flow hedges are generally recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income until maturity unless an anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur. discontinued or dedesignated cash flow hedges are immediately settled with counterparties, and the related accumulated derivative gains or losses are recognized into interest expense on the consolidated financial statements. we did not recognize any ineffectiveness during fiscal year 2008 or fiscal year 2007. interest rate risk sensitivity . as of december 28, 2008, our debt portfolio consisted of $359.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $179.1 million at december 28, 2008. our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $359.0 million of revolving and interim debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10%, or approximately 10 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.4 million for fiscal year 2009. (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 10 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.4 million for fiscal year 2009. (iii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. we are currently involved in several lawsuits involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. see item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of these matters. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. this affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. we do 12 table of contents compete with specialized manufacturing companies in the manufacturing and sale of specialty flashtubes for industrial applications and ultra specialty lighting sources, photo detectors and photodiodes, and switched power supplies. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. we believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. research and development research and development expenditures were approximately $107.3 million during fiscal year 2009, approximately $108.9 million during fiscal year 2008, and approximately $106.4 million during fiscal year 2007. the fiscal year 2007 amount included an in-process research and development ( ipr&amp;d ) charge of $1.5 million related to the acquisitions of evotec technologies gmbh and euroscreen products, s.a. in january 2007. we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental and safety and security markets within our environmental health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2010, and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental and safety and security markets within our environmental health segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $4.6 million as of january 3, 2010, which represents our management estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. this amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. these cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. in addition, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we settled an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred at our facility in boston, massachusetts in march 2005. we accrued $9.7 million representing 13 table of contents management estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, which was damaged in the fire. we paid $2.5 million during fiscal year 2009, $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. we anticipate that the remaining accrual of $1.7 million will be settled by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. we are actively marketing and have a plan to sell the building. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of january 3, 2010, we employed approximately 8,200 employees in continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers councils. as of january 3, 2010, we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,200 union and workers council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. financial information about reporting segments the assets and expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, have been included as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when such costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments. the table below sets forth sales and operating income (loss) by reporting segment for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) human health sales $ 736,497 $ 774,602 $ 631,553 operating income from continuing operations 79,942 79,123 72,347 environmental health sales 1,075,705 1,185,389 1,097,324 operating income from continuing operations 98,425 149,263 131,349 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (30,754 ) (33,964 ) (37,794 ) continuing operations sales $ 1,812,202 $ 1,959,991 $ 1,728,877 operating income from continuing operations 147,613 194,422 165,902 interest and other expense, net (see note 4) 16,936 45,609 16,877 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 130,677 $ 148,813 $ 149,025 discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table. 14 table of contents additional information relating to our reporting segments for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 is as follows: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) (in thousands) human health $ 54,287 $ 52,614 $ 41,333 $ 17,945 $ 20,313 $ 21,117 environmental health 35,353 34,449 33,942 11,854 19,883 20,670 corporate 2,203 1,550 1,575 1,887 3,201 3,105 continuing operations $ 91,843 $ 88,613 $ 76,850 $ 31,686 $ 43,397 $ 44,892 discontinued operations $ 1,296 $ 5,144 $ 1,229 $ 903 $ 2,007 $ 2,088 total assets january 3, 2010 december 28, 2008 (in thousands) human health $ 1,656,462 $ 1,604,672 environmental health 1,366,028 1,283,174 corporate 27,516 29,728 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 14,236 14,193 total assets $ 3,064,242 $ 2,931,767 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2009, we had $1,079.3 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2009, we derived approximately 32% of our international sales from our human health segment, and approximately 68% of our international sales from our environmental health segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly sales and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected 15 table of contents trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. for example, revenues and profits declined in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008, at least partially, as a result of these factors. our growth is subject to global economic, political and other risks. we have operations in many parts of the world. the health of the global economy has a significant impact on our business. since 2008, worldwide economic conditions have experienced a severe downturn due to the sequential effects of the credit market crisis and the resulting impact on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, inflation concerns, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital expenditures, and liquidity concerns. for example, the continuing tightening of credit in the financial markets may make it more difficult for customers to obtain financing for their operations, resulting in a material decrease in the orders we receive. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. in addition, our global manufacturing facilities face risks to their production capacity that may relate to natural disasters, labor relations or regulatory compliance. while certain of these risks can be hedged in a limited way using financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. in addition, our ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and the distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the 16 table of contents commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential sales revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable, or successfully divest businesses. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as opto technology inc., acquired in january 2009, analytica of branford, inc., acquired in may 2009, and sym-bio lifescience co., ltd., acquired in august 2009. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which expenses may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend 17 table of contents against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. thus, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, adverse changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, decline in general economic conditions or government funding, adverse income tax audit settlements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, adverse changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our sales represented by our various products and customers, 18 table of contents delays or problems in the introduction of new products, our competitors announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, increased costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, and changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states, tnt, ups and dhl in europe and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components, certain analytical instrumentation and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components, analytical instrumentation and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components, analytical instrumentation and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers or strategic relationships to supply critical materials and analytical instrumentation or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components, analytical instrumentation and other goods could usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components, analytical instrumentation or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the manufacture and sale of products may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. 19 table of contents if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries. if we fail to comply with those regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of the products produced by our human health segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar foreign and domestic agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total sales in the fiscal year ended january 3, 2010. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, 20 table of contents adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in our information technology systems or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers and suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. restrictions in our credit facility and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities. our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 6% senior unsecured notes contain, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these debt instruments include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict their ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. 21 table of contents our failure to comply with any of these restrictions in our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 6% senior unsecured notes may result in an event of default under either or both of these debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under either or both debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of january 3, 2010, our total assets included $1.9 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least on an annual basis for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are evaluated for impairment should discrete events occur that call into question the recoverability of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our human health and environmental health segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several quarters, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 21, 2009, we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, which was paid in january 2010. on january 25, 2010, we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 that is payable in may 2010. in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of january 3, 2010. we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. the fluctuations in foreign currency can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures from these currencies, with gains and losses resulting from the forward currency contracts that hedge these exposures. in the ordinary course of business, we enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive (loss) income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. we did not have any outstanding cash flow hedges during fiscal year 2009. 61 table of contents principal hedged currencies include the british pound (gbp), canadian dollar (cad), euro (eur), japanese yen (jpy), and singapore dollar (sgd). we held forward foreign exchange contracts with u.s. equivalent notional amounts totaling $168.5 million at january 3, 2010 and $160.8 million at december 28, 2008, and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007. we entered into forward interest rate contracts in october 2007, with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, that were intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our expected debt issuance. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. as a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized a loss of $17.5 million, in interest and other expense, net. as of january 3, 2010, the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income related to the effective cash flow hedges was $6.5 million, net of taxes of $4.2 million. the derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. we amortized into interest expense $2.0 million during fiscal year 2009 and $1.2 million during fiscal year 2008 for these derivative losses. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in a natural hedge. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of january 3, 2010, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.4 million. this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2009, the value-at-risk ranged between $0.4 million and $0.9 million, with an average of approximately $0.5 million. interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and 62 table of contents our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. we entered into forward interest rate contracts in october 2007, with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, that were intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our expected debt issuance. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. as a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized a loss of $17.5 million, in interest and other expense, net. as of january 3, 2010, the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income related to the effective cash flow hedges was $6.5 million, net of taxes of $4.2 million. the derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. we amortized into interest expense $2.0 million during fiscal year 2009 and $1.2 million during fiscal year 2008 for these derivative losses. interest rate risk sensitivity . as of january 3, 2010, our debt portfolio consisted of $406.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $179.7 million at january 3, 2010. our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $406.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10%, or approximately 7 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.3 million for fiscal year 2010. (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 7 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.3 million for fiscal year 2010. (iii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors for an additional description of this issue. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear 11 table of contents royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. we are currently involved in several lawsuits involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. see item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of these matters. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. this affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. we believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. research and development research and development expenditures were approximately $95.4 million during fiscal year 2010, approximately $90.8 million during fiscal year 2009, and approximately $93.0 million during fiscal year 2008. we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental and safety, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2011, and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental and safety, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment. 12 table of contents environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $6.0 million as of january 2, 2011, which represents our management estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. this amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. these cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. in addition, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we settled an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred at our facility in boston, massachusetts in march 2005. we accrued $9.7 million representing our management estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, which was damaged in the fire. we paid $2.5 million during fiscal year 2009, $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. we sold the building on april 27, 2010. net proceeds from the sale were $11.0 million, and we recorded a pre-tax gain of $3.4 million in operating income. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of january 2, 2011, we employed approximately 6,200 employees in our continuing operations, compared to employing approximately 8,200 employees in our continuing operations one year earlier. the primary reason for the decrease in the number of our employees is due to the sale of our ids business, which was partially offset by investments in higher growth geographic regions. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers councils. as of january 2, 2011, we employed an aggregate of approximately 800 union and workers council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. 13 table of contents financial information about reporting segments the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, have been included as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when such costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments. the table below sets forth sales and operating income (loss) by reporting segment for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands) human health sales $ 796,310 $ 731,649 $ 768,659 operating income from continuing operations 96,474 80,581 79,743 environmental health sales 908,036 819,117 891,009 operating income from continuing operations 92,295 75,518 106,153 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (35,168 ) (34,177 ) (38,269 ) continuing operations sales $ 1,704,346 $ 1,550,766 $ 1,659,668 operating income from continuing operations 153,601 121,922 147,627 interest and other (income) expense, net (see note 5) (8,383 ) 15,787 44,039 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 161,984 $ 106,135 $ 103,588 discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table. additional information relating to our reporting segments for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 is as follows: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands) (in thousands) human health $ 61,346 $ 54,287 $ 52,614 $ 17,341 $ 17,945 $ 20,313 environmental health 26,284 24,272 23,212 15,005 5,684 11,755 corporate 1,533 2,203 1,550 1,300 1,887 3,201 continuing operations $ 89,163 $ 80,762 $ 77,376 $ 33,646 $ 25,516 $ 35,269 discontinued operations $ 10,177 $ 12,377 $ 16,381 $ 9,090 $ 7,073 $ 10,135 14 table of contents total assets january 2, 2011 january 3, 2010 (in thousands) human health $ 1,772,695 $ 1,656,462 environmental health 1,376,248 1,164,603 corporate 60,203 27,516 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 227 210,459 total assets $ 3,209,373 $ 3,059,040 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2010, we had $1,034.4 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 61% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2010, we derived approximately 43% of our international sales from our human health segment, and approximately 57% of our international sales from our environmental health segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 22 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations and are not materially different from those factors reported in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the period ended october 3, 2010: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly sales and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. 15 table of contents our growth is subject to global economic, political and other risks. we have operations in many parts of the world. the health of the global economy has a significant impact on our business. the global economy, which experienced a significant downturn throughout 2008 and 2009, including the effects of the credit market crisis and the resulting impact on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, inflation concerns, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital expenditures, and liquidity concerns, began showing signs of gradual improvement in 2010. however, while some economic indicators improved, the overall rate of global recovery experienced during the course of 2010 has been uneven and the recovery is still uncertain. there can be no assurance that any of the recent economic improvements will be sustainable, or that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position, or our ability to access capital. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. in addition, our global manufacturing facilities face risks to their production capacity that may relate to natural disasters, labor relations or regulatory compliance. while certain of these risks can be hedged in a limited way using financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. in addition, our ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant sales. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential sales revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. 16 table of contents we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable, or successfully divest businesses. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisitions of chemagen, visen and signature genomic, and our purchase of the remaining interest in the icpms joint venture. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, including: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which expenses may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. 17 table of contents if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future sales and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, settlements of income tax audits, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our sales represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, 18 table of contents our ability to execute ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, and changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states, tnt, ups and dhl in europe and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods could usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries. if we fail to comply with those regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of the products produced by our human health segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, 19 table of contents manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar foreign and domestic agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total sales in the fiscal year ended january 2, 2011. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country or region political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, 20 table of contents increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in our information technology systems or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers and suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. restrictions in our credit facility and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities. our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 6% senior unsecured notes contain, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may contain, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these debt instruments include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict their ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of our debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. our failure to comply with any of these restrictions in our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 6% senior unsecured notes may result in an event of default under either or both of these debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under either or both debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. 21 table of contents our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of january 2, 2011, our total assets included $1.9 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least on an annual basis for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are evaluated for impairment should discrete events occur that call into question the recoverability of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our human health and environmental health segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several quarters, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 27, 2010, we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, which was paid in february 2011. on january 24, 2011, we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 that is payable in may 2011. in the future, our board may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of january 2, 2011. we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 61% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. therefore, the fluctuations in foreign currency can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily denominated in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive (loss) income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. we did not have any outstanding cash flow hedges during fiscal year 2010. principal hedged currencies include the british pound (gbp), canadian dollar (cad), euro (eur), japanese yen (jpy), and singapore dollar (sgd). we held forward foreign exchange contracts with u.s. equivalent notional amounts totaling $107.3 million at january 2, 2011 and $168.5 million at january 3, 2010, and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008. we entered into forward interest rate contracts in october 2007, with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, that were intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our expected debt issuance. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. as a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized a loss of $17.5 million in interest and other (income) expense, net. 59 table of contents as of january 2, 2011, the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the effective cash flow hedges was $5.3 million, net of taxes of $3.4 million. the derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. we amortized $2.0 million into interest expense during each of the fiscal years 2010 and 2009, and $1.2 million during fiscal year 2008. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 61% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of january 2, 2011, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.3 million. this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2010, the value-at-risk ranged between $0.2 million and $0.4 million, with an average of approximately $0.3 million. interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. we entered into forward interest rate contracts in october 2007, with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, that were intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our expected debt issuance. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. as a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized a loss of $17.5 million in interest and other (income) expense, net. as of january 2, 2011, the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the effective cash flow hedges was $5.3 million, net of taxes of $3.4 million. the derivative losses are being 60 table of contents amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. we amortized $2.0 million into interest expense during each of the fiscal years 2010 and 2009, and $1.2 million during fiscal year 2008. interest rate risk sensitivity . as of january 2, 2011, our debt portfolio consisted of $274.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $420.1 million at january 2, 2011. our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $274.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10%, or approximately 7 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.2 million for fiscal year 2011. (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 7 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.2 million for fiscal year 2011. (iii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 61 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors for an additional description of this issue. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. we are currently involved in a lawsuit involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. see item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of this matter. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. 10 table of contents competition due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. this affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. we believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. research and development research and development expenditures were approximately $115.8 million during fiscal year 2011 , approximately $94.8 million during fiscal year 2010 , and approximately $90.5 million during fiscal year 2009 . we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2012 , and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $6.7 million as of january 1, 2012 , which represents our management's estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. this amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. these cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. in addition, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we settled an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred at our facility in boston, massachusetts in march 2005. we accrued $9.7 million representing our management's estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, which was damaged in the fire. we paid $2.5 million during fiscal year 2009, $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. we sold the building on april 27, 2010. net proceeds from the sale were $11.0 million , and we recorded a pre-tax gain of $3.4 million in operating income. 11 table of contents we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of january 1, 2012 , we employed approximately 7,200 employees in our continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of january 1, 2012 , we employed an aggregate of approximately 840 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. financial information about reporting segments we have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the expense related to mark-to-market and curtailments on postretirement benefit plans, as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our reporting segments. the table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss), excluding discontinued operations, by reporting segment for the fiscal years ended: january 1, 2012 january 2, 2011 january 3, 2010 (in thousands) human health product revenue $ 754,046 $ 672,217 $ 615,838 service revenue 133,140 124,093 115,811 total revenue 887,186 796,310 731,649 operating income from continuing operations 99,306 97,855 80,167 environmental health product revenue 565,464 489,525 442,015 service revenue 468,637 418,511 377,102 total revenue 1,034,101 908,036 819,117 operating income from continuing operations 99,341 95,090 76,356 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (1) (107,519 ) (35,377 ) (40,577 ) continuing operations product revenue $ 1,319,510 $ 1,161,742 $ 1,057,853 service revenue 601,777 542,604 492,913 total revenue 1,921,287 1,704,346 1,550,766 operating income from continuing operations 91,128 157,568 115,946 interest and other expense (income), net 26,774 (8,383 ) 15,787 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 64,354 $ 165,951 $ 100,159 ____________________________ (1) the expense related to mark-to-market and curtailments on postretirement benefit plans have been included in the corporate operating loss from continuing operations, and together constituted a pre-tax loss of $67.9 million in fiscal year 2011 , a pre-tax loss of $0.2 million in fiscal year 2010 , and a pre-tax loss of $6.4 million in fiscal year 2009 . 12 table of contents additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures january 1, 2012 january 2, 2011 january 3, 2010 january 1, 2012 january 2, 2011 january 3, 2010 (in thousands) (in thousands) human health $ 69,746 $ 61,346 $ 54,287 $ 15,395 $ 17,341 $ 17,945 environmental health 39,480 26,284 24,272 13,190 15,005 5,684 corporate 1,695 1,533 2,203 2,007 1,300 1,887 continuing operations $ 110,921 $ 89,163 $ 80,762 $ 30,592 $ 33,646 $ 25,516 discontinued operations $ $ 10,177 $ 12,377 $ $ 9,090 $ 7,073 total assets january 1, 2012 january 2, 2011 january 3, 2010 (in thousands) human health $ 2,233,325 $ 1,772,524 $ 1,656,305 environmental health 1,569,490 1,375,992 1,164,474 corporate 31,181 60,203 27,516 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 202 227 210,459 total assets $ 3,834,198 $ 3,208,946 $ 3,058,754 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2011 , we had $1,192.7 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 62% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2011 , we derived approximately 38% of our international sales from our human health segment, and approximately 62% of our international sales from our environmental health segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. 13 table of contents our growth is subject to global economic, political and other risks. we have operations in many parts of the world. the global economy has a significant impact on our business. the global economy experienced a significant downturn throughout 2008 and 2009. this downturn was caused in part by the effects of the credit market crisis and the resulting impact on the finance and banking industries, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, inflation concerns, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital expenditures, and liquidity concerns. although the global economy began showing signs of gradual improvement in 2010, debt and equity markets experienced renewed disruption beginning early in the third quarter of 2011, including the downgrading of government issued debt in the united states and other countries. the overall rate of global recovery experienced during the course of 2010 and 2011 remains uneven and recovery is still uncertain. there can be no assurance that any of the recent economic improvements will be sustainable, or that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. in addition, our global facilities face risks that may relate to natural disasters, labor relations or regulatory compliance. while certain of these risks can be hedged in a limited way using financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. in addition, our ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable, or successfully divest businesses. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of caliper in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, our acquisitions of dexela, labtronics, geospiza and cambridgesoft in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, and our acquisitions of artuslabs, idb and chemagen in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, 14 table of contents the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. 15 table of contents our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, settlements of income tax audits, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, our ability to execute ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to mark-to-market and curtailments on postretirement benefit plans, and changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states, tnt, ups and dhl in europe and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. 16 table of contents the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries. if we fail to comply with those regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of the products produced by our human health segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar foreign and domestic agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2011 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, 17 table of contents differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. we have outstanding debt and other financial obligations. as of february 23, 2012 , we had approximately $1.0 billion of debt on a consolidated basis. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our 6% senior unsecured notes due 2015 (the 2015 notes ) and our 2021 notes include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, 18 table of contents guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our 2015 notes, our 2021 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of january 1, 2012 , our total assets included $2.8 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our human health and environmental health segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several quarters, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on january 27, 2012, we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 that will be payable in may 2012. in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of january 1, 2012 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 62% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. therefore, the fluctuations in foreign currency can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. 50 table of contents in the ordinary course of business, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily denominated in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive (loss) income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. we did not have any outstanding cash flow hedges during fiscal years 2011 and 2010 . principal hedged currencies include the british pound (gbp), canadian dollar (cad), euro (eur), japanese yen (jpy), and singapore dollar (sgd). we held forward foreign exchange contracts with u.s. equivalent notional amounts totaling $268.9 million at january 1, 2012 and $107.3 million at january 2, 2011 , and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 . in may 2008 , we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. the derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. as of january 1, 2012 , the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the effective cash flow hedges was $4.1 million , net of taxes of $2.7 million . we amortized $2.0 million into interest expense during each of the fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 . market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 62% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of january 1, 2012 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.4 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2011 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.4 million and $0.5 million , with an average of approximately $0.4 million . interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. 51 table of contents in may 2008 , we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. the derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. as of january 1, 2012 , the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the effective cash flow hedges was $4.1 million , net of taxes of $2.7 million . we amortized $2.0 million into interest expense during each of the fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 . interest rate risk sensitivity . as of january 1, 2012 , our debt portfolio consisted of $298.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $142.3 million at january 1, 2012 . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $298.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 16 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.5 million for fiscal year 2012 . (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10% , or approximately 16 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.5 million for fiscal year 2012 . (iii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors for an additional description of this risk. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. we are currently involved in a lawsuit involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. see item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of this matter. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. 9 table of contents competition due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. this affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. we believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. research and development research and development expenditures were approximately $132.6 million during fiscal year 2012 , approximately $115.8 million during fiscal year 2011 , and approximately $94.8 million during fiscal year 2010 . we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2013 , and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. we have accrued $6.1 million as of december 30, 2012 , which represents our management's estimate of the total cost of the ultimate remediation of known environmental matters and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. this amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. these cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. in addition, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we settled an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred at our facility in boston, massachusetts in march 2005. in fiscal year 2007, we accrued $9.7 million representing our management's estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, which was damaged in the fire. we paid $2.5 million during fiscal year 2009, $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. we sold the building on april 27, 2010. net proceeds from the sale were $11.0 million , and we recorded a pre-tax gain of $3.4 million in operating income. 10 table of contents we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of december 30, 2012 , we employed approximately 7,500 employees in our continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of december 30, 2012 , we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,600 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. financial information about reporting segments we have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the expense related to mark-to-market on postretirement benefit plans, as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our reporting segments. the table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss), excluding discontinued operations, by reporting segment for the fiscal years ended: december 30, 2012 january 1, 2012 january 2, 2011 (as adjusted) (in thousands) human health product revenue $ 888,006 $ 754,046 $ 672,217 service revenue 156,128 130,361 121,514 total revenue 1,044,134 884,407 793,731 operating income from continuing operations (1) 73,727 99,306 97,855 environmental health product revenue 586,668 565,464 489,525 service revenue 484,403 468,637 418,511 total revenue 1,071,071 1,034,101 908,036 operating income from continuing operations (1) 97,313 99,341 95,090 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (2) (72,497 ) (107,519 ) (35,377 ) continuing operations product revenue $ 1,474,674 $ 1,319,510 $ 1,161,742 service revenue 640,531 598,998 540,025 total revenue 2,115,205 1,918,508 1,701,767 operating income from continuing operations 98,543 91,128 157,568 interest and other expense (income), net 47,956 26,774 (8,383 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 50,587 $ 64,354 $ 165,951 ____________________________ (1) the pre-tax impairment charges have been included in the human health and environmental health operating income from continuing operations. we recognized $54.3 million of pre-tax impairment charges in the human health segment and also recognized $19.9 million of pre-tax impairment charges in the environmental health segment in fiscal year 2012 . we recognized a $3.0 million pre-tax impairment charge in the human health segment in fiscal year 2011 . there were no impairment charges during fiscal year 2010 . (2) the expenses related to mark-to-market on postretirement benefit plans have been included in the corporate operating loss from continuing operations, and together constituted a pre-tax loss of $31.8 million in fiscal year 2012 , a pre-tax loss of $67.9 million in fiscal year 2011 , and a pre-tax loss of $0.2 million in fiscal year 2010 . 11 table of contents additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures december 30, 2012 january 1, 2012 january 2, 2011 december 30, 2012 january 1, 2012 january 2, 2011 (in thousands) (in thousands) human health $ 86,703 $ 69,746 $ 61,346 $ 22,515 $ 15,395 $ 17,341 environmental health 37,634 39,480 26,284 16,498 13,190 15,005 corporate 2,528 1,695 1,533 3,395 2,007 1,300 continuing operations $ 126,865 $ 110,921 $ 89,163 $ 42,408 $ 30,592 $ 33,646 discontinued operations $ $ $ 10,177 $ $ $ 9,090 total assets december 30, 2012 january 1, 2012 january 2, 2011 (as adjusted) (in thousands) human health $ 2,246,389 $ 2,254,768 $ 1,772,524 environmental health 1,621,421 1,569,490 1,375,992 corporate 33,952 31,181 60,203 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 202 227 total assets $ 3,901,762 $ 3,855,641 $ 3,208,946 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2012 , we had $1,292.3 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2012 , we derived approximately 41% of our international sales from our human health segment, and approximately 59% of our international sales from our environmental health segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our 12 table of contents consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. we have operations in many parts of the world. while the global economy began showing signs of gradual improvement in 2010 from its significant downturn in 2008 and 2009, debt and equity markets experienced renewed disruption beginning early in the third quarter of 2011, including the downgrading of government issued debt in the united states and other countries, and the prospects of an economic recovery remain uncertain particularly as the united states and other countries continue to balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. there can be no assurance that any of the recent economic improvements will be sustainable, or that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. while we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. 13 table of contents we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable, or successfully divest businesses. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of haoyuan in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 and caliper in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. the expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. 14 table of contents our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, settlements of income tax audits, expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, our ability to execute ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to mark-to-market on postretirement benefit plans, and changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states; tnt, ups and dhl in europe; and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products 15 table of contents could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries. if we fail to comply with those regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of the products produced by our human health segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar foreign and domestic agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. 16 table of contents economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2012 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. 17 table of contents we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our 6% senior unsecured notes due 2015 (the 2015 notes ) and our 5% senior unsecured notes due 2021 (the "2021 notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our 2015 notes, our 2021 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 30, 2012 , our total assets included $2.7 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our human health and environmental health segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 18 table of contents our share price will fluctuate. over the last several quarters, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on january 25, 2013 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 that will be payable in may 2013 . in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 30, 2012 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. therefore, the fluctuations in foreign currency can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily denominated in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive (loss) income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. principal hedged currencies include the british pound, canadian dollar, euro, japanese yen, and singapore dollar. we held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as fair value hedges, with u.s. equivalent notional amounts totaling $64.3 million at december 30, 2012 and $268.9 million at january 1, 2012 , and the approximate fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 . 52 table of contents as of december 30, 2012 , we had two cash flow hedges outstanding, and as of january 1, 2012 , we had no outstanding cash flow hedges. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 , we entered into two forward foreign exchange contracts with settlement dates in fiscal year 2013 and combined euro denominated notional amounts of euro 50.0 million , designated as cash flow hedges. the fair value of these currency derivative contracts at december 30, 2012 was $0.1 million . in may 2008 , we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. the derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. as of december 30, 2012 , the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the effective cash flow hedges was $2.9 million , net of taxes of $1.9 million . we amortized $2.0 million into interest expense during each of the fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 . market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 30, 2012 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.3 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2012 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.2 million and $0.5 million , with an average of approximately $0.3 million . interest rate risk. as described above, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. in may 2008 , we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. the derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. as of december 30, 2012 , the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the effective cash flow hedges was $2.9 million , net of taxes of $1.9 million . we amortized $2.0 million into interest expense during each of the fiscal years 2012, 2011, and 2010 . interest rate risk sensitivity . as of december 30, 2012 , our debt portfolio consisted of $258.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $171.4 million at december 30, 2012 . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $258.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 15 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.4 million for fiscal year 2013 . 53 table of contents (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10% , or approximately 15 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.4 million for fiscal year 2013 . (iii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors for an additional description of this risk. intellectual property we own numerous united states and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the united states and abroad. we also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. in addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. we also own numerous united states and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the united states and abroad. we believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. we do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments. in some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors' patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties' intellectual property rights. litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. an adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to 9 table of contents significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties. we are currently involved in a lawsuit involving claims of violation of intellectual property rights. see item 3. legal proceedings for a discussion of this matter. backlog we believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required on a majority of our sales. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business. competition due to the wide range of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. this affects our ability to sell our products and services and the prices at which these products and services are sold. our competitors range from large foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to small firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments. we compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market niches. we expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors. we believe we compete effectively in each of the areas in which our businesses experience competition. research and development research and development expenditures were $133.0 million during fiscal year 2013 , $132.6 million during fiscal year 2012 , and $115.8 million during fiscal year 2011 . we have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011 primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, and laboratory service and support markets within our environmental health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. we expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2014 , and to continue to emphasize the diagnostics and research markets within our human health segment, and the environmental, industrial and laboratory services markets within our environmental health segment. environmental matters our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. these requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees. we may have liability under the comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. we have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes. we are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party ( prp ) for certain waste disposal sites. we accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. during fiscal year 2013, we accrued an additional $5.7 million related to a particular site for increased monitoring and mitigation activities, of which $4.6 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. we have accrued $13.5 million as of december 29, 2013 , which represents our management's estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. this amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. these cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. for sites where we have been named a prp, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. we expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. as assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, 10 table of contents these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. there have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. while it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded. we may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs. employees as of december 29, 2013 , we employed approximately 7,600 employees in our continuing operations. several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers' councils. as of december 29, 2013 , we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,400 union and workers' council employees. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. financial information about reporting segments we realigned our organization at the beginning of fiscal year 2013, to allow us to implement our strategy and propel our vision to improve global health by innovating technologies that help make healthcare more effective, affordable and accessible around the world. our informatics business, as well as our field service on products previously sold by our former bio-discovery business, were moved from our environmental health segment into our human health segment. the results reported for fiscal year 2013 reflect this new alignment of our operating segments. financial information relating to fiscal years 2012 and 2011 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the changes to the operating segments. we have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, as corporate below. we have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. these amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our reporting segments. 11 table of contents the table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss), excluding discontinued operations, by reporting segment for the fiscal years ended: december 29, 2013 december 30, 2012 january 1, 2012 (as adjusted) (in thousands) human health product revenue $ 957,022 $ 926,733 $ 761,665 service revenue 252,734 247,909 216,227 total revenue 1,209,756 1,174,642 977,892 operating income from continuing operations (1) 146,100 59,196 89,725 environmental health product revenue 541,048 547,941 557,845 service revenue 415,428 392,622 382,771 total revenue 956,476 940,563 940,616 operating income from continuing operations (1) 97,052 111,844 108,922 corporate operating loss from continuing operations (2) (25,710 ) (72,497 ) (107,519 ) continuing operations product revenue $ 1,498,070 $ 1,474,674 $ 1,319,510 service revenue 668,162 640,531 598,998 total revenue 2,166,232 2,115,205 1,918,508 operating income from continuing operations 217,442 98,543 91,128 interest and other expense, net 64,110 47,956 26,774 income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 153,332 $ 50,587 $ 64,354 ____________________________ (1) pre-tax impairment charges have been included in the human health and environmental health operating income from continuing operations. we recognized a $6.7 million pre-tax impairment charge in the human health segment in fiscal year 2013. we recognized $73.4 million of pre-tax impairment charges in the human health segment and also recognized $0.7 million of pre-tax impairment charges in the environmental health segment in fiscal year 2012. we recognized a $3.0 million pre-tax impairment charge in the human health segment in fiscal year 2011. (2) activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans have been included in the corporate operating loss from continuing operations, and together constituted pre-tax income of $17.6 million in fiscal year 2013 , a pre-tax loss of $31.8 million in fiscal year 2012 , and a pre-tax loss of $67.9 million in fiscal year 2011 . additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended: depreciation and amortization expense capital expenditures december 29, 2013 december 30, 2012 january 1, 2012 december 29, 2013 december 30, 2012 january 1, 2012 (as adjusted) (as adjusted) (in thousands) (in thousands) human health $ 100,174 $ 101,336 $ 81,938 $ 20,910 $ 24,525 $ 16,570 environmental health 25,915 23,001 27,288 16,532 14,488 12,015 corporate 2,382 2,528 1,695 1,549 3,395 2,007 continuing operations $ 128,471 $ 126,865 $ 110,921 $ 38,991 $ 42,408 $ 30,592 12 table of contents total assets december 29, 2013 december 30, 2012 january 1, 2012 (as adjusted) (in thousands) human health $ 2,698,640 $ 2,714,366 $ 2,674,243 environmental health 1,213,801 1,153,444 1,150,015 corporate 34,271 33,952 31,181 net current and long-term assets of discontinued operations 202 total assets $ 3,946,712 $ 3,901,762 $ 3,855,641 financial information about geographic areas both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the united states. during fiscal year 2013 , we had $1,330.6 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. during fiscal year 2013 , we derived approximately 48% of our international sales from our human health segment, and approximately 52% of our international sales from our environmental health segment. we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future. we are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. additional geographic information is discussed in note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the following important factors affect our business and operations generally or affect multiple segments of our business and operations: if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated due to a decline in general economic conditions, or there are uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals, or there are unfavorable changes in government regulations, we may see an adverse effect on the results of our business operations. our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, laboratories, academic and research institutions, public health authorities, private healthcare organizations, doctors and government agencies. our quarterly revenue and results of operations are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter. in addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future quarters are often based on the expected trends in our markets. however, the markets we serve do not always experience the trends that we may expect. negative fluctuations in our customers' markets, the inability of our customers to secure credit or funding, restrictions in capital expenditures, general economic conditions, cuts in government funding or unfavorable changes in government regulations would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. in addition, government funding is subject to economic conditions and the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. our revenues may be adversely affected if our customers delay or reduce purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government or industrial funding proposals. such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and trading price of our common stock, and could limit our ability to sustain profitability. our growth is subject to global economic and political conditions, and operational disruptions at our facilities. our business is affected by global economic conditions and the state of the financial markets, particularly as the united states and other countries balance concerns around debt, inflation, growth and budget allocations in their policy initiatives. there can be no assurance that global economic conditions and financial markets will not worsen and that we will not experience any adverse effects that may be material to our consolidated cash flows, results of operations, financial position or our ability to access capital, such as the adverse effects resulting from a prolonged shutdown in government operations both in the united states and internationally. our business is also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, financial liquidity and currency volatility or devaluation. political changes, some of which may be disruptive, could interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. while we take precautions to prevent production or service interruptions at our global facilities, a major earthquake, fire, flood, power loss or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or delay of any of our critical business operations 13 table of contents could result in our incurring significant liability to customers or other third parties, cause significant reputational damage or have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. certain of these risks can be hedged to a limited degree using financial instruments, or other measures, and some of these risks are insurable, but any such mitigation efforts are costly and may not always be fully successful. our ability to engage in such mitigation efforts has decreased or become even more costly as a result of recent market developments. if we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. we sell many of our products in industries characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions, and evolving customer needs and industry standards. many of the businesses competing with us in these industries have significant financial and other resources to invest in new technologies, substantial intellectual property portfolios, substantial experience in new product development, regulatory expertise, manufacturing capabilities, and established distribution channels to deliver products to customers. our products could become technologically obsolete over time, or we may invest in technology that does not lead to revenue growth or continue to sell products for which the demand from our customers is declining, in which case we may lose market share or not achieve our revenue growth targets. the success of our new product offerings will depend upon several factors, including our ability to: accurately anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new technologies and applications, successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price our products competitively, and manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time, and differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings. many of our products are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their products. we must anticipate industry trends and consistently develop new products to meet our customers' expectations. in developing new products, we may be required to make significant investments before we can determine the commercial viability of the new product. if we fail to accurately foresee our customers' needs and future activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. we may also suffer a loss in market share and potential revenue if we are unable to commercialize our technology in a timely and efficient manner. in addition, some of our licensed technology is subject to contractual restrictions, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize products for some applications. we may not be able to successfully execute acquisitions or license technologies, integrate acquired businesses or licensed technologies into our existing businesses, make acquired businesses or licensed technologies profitable, or successfully divest businesses. we have in the past supplemented, and may in the future supplement, our internal growth by acquiring businesses and licensing technologies that complement or augment our existing product lines, such as our acquisition of shanghai haoyuan biotech co., ltd. ("haoyuan") in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. however, we may be unable to identify or complete promising acquisitions or license transactions for many reasons, such as: competition among buyers and licensees, the high valuations of businesses and technologies, the need for regulatory and other approval, and our inability to raise capital to fund these acquisitions. some of the businesses we acquire may be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or may increase the variability of our revenue recognition. accordingly, the earnings or losses of acquired businesses may dilute our earnings. for these acquired businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we would have to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. we may not be successful in this regard and may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations, such as incompatible management, information or other systems, cultural differences, loss of key personnel, unforeseen regulatory requirements, previously undisclosed liabilities or difficulties in predicting financial results. additionally, if we are not successful in selling businesses we seek to divest, the activity of such businesses may dilute our earnings and we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of such divestitures. as a result, our financial results may differ from our forecasts or the expectations of the investment community in a given quarter or over the long term. 14 table of contents to finance our acquisitions, we may have to raise additional funds, either through public or private financings. we may be unable to obtain such funds or may be able to do so only on terms unacceptable to us. we may also incur expenses related to completing acquisitions or licensing technologies, or in evaluating potential acquisitions or technologies, which may adversely impact our profitability. we may not be successful in adequately protecting our intellectual property. patent and trade secret protection is important to us because developing new products, processes and technologies gives us a competitive advantage, although it is time-consuming and expensive. we own many united states and foreign patents and intend to apply for additional patents. patent applications we file, however, may not result in issued patents or, if they do, the claims allowed in the patents may be narrower than what is needed to protect fully our products, processes and technologies. the expiration of our previously issued patents may cause us to lose a competitive advantage in certain of the products and services we provide. similarly, applications to register our trademarks may not be granted in all countries in which they are filed. for our intellectual property that is protected by keeping it secret, such as trade secrets and know-how, we may not use adequate measures to protect this intellectual property. third parties may also challenge the validity of our issued patents, may circumvent or design around our patents and patent applications, or may claim that our products, processes or technologies infringe their patents. in addition, third parties may assert that our product names infringe their trademarks. we may incur significant expense in legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property against infringement by third parties or to defend against claims of infringement by third parties. claims by third parties in pending or future lawsuits could result in awards of substantial damages against us or court orders that could effectively prevent us from manufacturing, using, importing or selling our products in the united states or other countries. if we are unable to renew our licenses or otherwise lose our licensed rights, we may have to stop selling products or we may lose competitive advantage. we may not be able to renew our existing licenses, or licenses we may obtain in the future, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we lose the rights to a patented or other proprietary technology, we may need to stop selling products incorporating that technology and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. potential competitors could in-license technologies that we fail to license and potentially erode our market share. our licenses typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. if we fail to comply with these obligations, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a market. in some cases, we could lose all rights under the license. in addition, rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. for example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third-party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous competitors in many areas of our business. we may not be able to compete effectively with all of these competitors. to remain competitive, we must develop new products and periodically enhance our existing products. we anticipate that we may also have to adjust the prices of many of our products to stay competitive. in addition, new competitors, technologies or market trends may emerge to threaten or reduce the value of entire product lines. our quarterly operating results could be subject to significant fluctuation, and we may not be able to adjust our operations to effectively address changes we do not anticipate, which could increase the volatility of our stock price and potentially cause losses to our shareholders. given the nature of the markets in which we participate, we cannot reliably predict future revenue and profitability. changes in competitive, market and economic conditions may require us to adjust our operations, and we may not be able to make those adjustments or make them quickly enough to adapt to changing conditions. a high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to our research and development and manufacturing costs. as a result, small declines in sales could disproportionately affect our operating results in a quarter. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: demand for and market acceptance of our products, competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices, changes in the level of economic activity in regions in which we do business, changes in general economic conditions or government funding, 15 table of contents settlements of income tax audits, expenses incurred in connection with claims related to environmental conditions at locations where we conduct or formerly conducted operations, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to taxation, changes in our effective tax rate, changes in industries, such as pharmaceutical and biomedical, changes in the portions of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, our ability to introduce new products, our competitors' announcement or introduction of new products, services or technological innovations, costs of raw materials, energy or supplies, changes in healthcare or other reimbursement rates paid by government agencies and other third parties for certain of our products and services, our ability to realize the benefit of ongoing productivity initiatives, changes in the volume or timing of product orders, fluctuation in the expense related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans changes in our assumptions underlying future funding of pension obligations, and changes in assumptions used to determine contingent consideration in acquisitions. a significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. we ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies, including ups and federal express in the united states; tnt, ups and dhl in europe; and ups in asia. we also ship our products through other carriers, including national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and the united states postal service. if one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers and the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain of our customers. disruptions in the supply of raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our limited or single source suppliers could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. the production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. however, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. we generally have multi-year contracts with no minimum purchase requirements with these suppliers, but those contracts may not fully protect us from a failure by certain suppliers to supply critical materials or from the delays inherent in being required to change suppliers and, in some cases, validate new raw materials. such raw materials, key components and other goods can usually be obtained from alternative sources with the potential for an increase in price, decline in quality or delay in delivery. a prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. we are subject to the rules of the securities and exchange commission requiring disclosure as to whether certain materials known as conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), which may be contained in our products are mined from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries. as a result of these rules, we may incur additional costs in complying with the disclosure requirements and in satisfying those customers who require that the components used in our products be certified as conflict-free, and the potential lack of availability of these materials at competitive prices could increase our production costs. 16 table of contents the manufacture and sale of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. we may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. if we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the united states food and drug administration and other governmental agencies in the united states and abroad, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil, criminal or monetary penalties. our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the united states and other countries, as well as to the standards established by international standards bodies. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. some of the products produced by our human health segment are subject to regulation by the united states food and drug administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. these regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. if we fail to comply with those regulations or standards, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. we are also subject to a variety of laws, regulations and standards that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products, the handling, transportation and manufacture of toxic or hazardous substances, and our business practices in the united states and abroad such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and competition laws. this requires that we devote substantial resources to maintaining our compliance with those laws, regulations and standards. a failure to do so could result in the imposition of civil, criminal or monetary penalties having a material adverse effect on our operations. changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. we compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as environmental, health and safety, and food and drug regulations. we develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and if we fail to comply with its extensive system of laws and regulations, we could suffer fines and penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations which could have a significant adverse effect on the results of our business operations. the healthcare industry, including the genetic screening market, is subject to extensive and frequently changing international and united states federal, state and local laws and regulations. in addition, legislative provisions relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, patient privacy violations and misconduct involving government insurance programs provide federal enforcement personnel with substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected violations. we believe that our business will continue to be subject to increasing regulation as the federal government continues to strengthen its position on healthcare matters, the scope and effect of which we cannot predict. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales and profitability. because we sell our products worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our sales originating outside the united states represented the majority of our total revenue in fiscal year 2013 . we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. in addition, many of our manufacturing facilities, employees and suppliers are located outside the united states. accordingly, our future results of operations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a country's or region's political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets, longer payment cycles of foreign customers and timing of collections in foreign jurisdictions, 17 table of contents trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, differing tax laws and changes in those laws, or changes in the countries in which we are subject to tax, adverse income tax audit settlements or loss of previously negotiated tax incentives, differing business practices associated with foreign operations, difficulty in transferring cash between international operations and the united states, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor laws and changes in those laws, differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection, increasing global enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and differing regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. if we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and scientists, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for these employees is intense. the loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. the inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. if we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems, software and technologies successfully, our business could be adversely affected. we rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. if we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we have a substantial amount of outstanding debt, which could impact our ability to obtain future financing and limit our ability to make other expenditures in the conduct of our business. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions and stock repurchases; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. in addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future to meet future financing needs. if we add new debt, the risks described above could increase. restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may limit our activities. our senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our 5% senior unsecured notes due in 2021 (the "2021 notes") include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our company. these include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, 18 table of contents sell assets, incur obligations that restrict our subsidiaries' ability to make dividend or other payments to us, guarantee or secure indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliates, and consolidate, merge or transfer all, or substantially all, of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. we are also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms of certain of our existing debt instruments. our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level of competition. in addition, if we are unable to maintain our investment grade credit rating, our borrowing costs would increase and we would be subject to different and potentially more restrictive financial covenants under some of our existing debt instruments. any future indebtedness that we incur may include similar or more restrictive covenants. our failure to comply with any of the restrictions in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility, our 2021 notes or any future indebtedness may result in an event of default under those debt instruments, which could permit acceleration of the debt under those debt instruments, and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date under certain circumstances. our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. as of december 29, 2013 , our total assets included $2.6 billion of net intangible assets. net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill associated with acquisitions and costs associated with securing patent rights, trademark rights, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. we test certain of these items specifically all of those that are considered non-amortizing at least annually for potential impairment by comparing the carrying value to the fair market value of the reporting unit to which they are assigned. all of our amortizing intangible assets are also evaluated for impairment should events occur that call into question the value of the intangible assets. adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our human health and environmental health segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. our share price will fluctuate. over the last several quarters, stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility. both the market price and the daily trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations and business prospects. in addition to the risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by: operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the financial performance of the major end markets that we target, the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors, and changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets. dividends on our common stock could be reduced or eliminated in the future. on october 24, 2013 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013 that will be payable in february 2014 . on january 24, 2014 , we announced that our board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 that will be payable in may 2014 . in the future, our board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. we believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of december 29, 2013 . we use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. by nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. we enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. we do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. therefore, the fluctuations in foreign currency can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. in the ordinary course of business, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. the contracts are primarily denominated in european and asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. principal hedged currencies include the british pound, euro, japanese yen and singapore dollar. we held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as fair value hedges, with u.s. equivalent notional amounts totaling $138.4 million at december 29, 2013 and $64.3 million at december 30, 2012 , and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. the gains and losses realized on foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. the duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011 . as of december 29, 2013 , we had no cash flow hedges outstanding, and as of december 30, 2012 , we had two outstanding cash flow hedges. during fiscal year 2012, we entered into two forward foreign exchange contracts with settlement dates in fiscal year 2013 and combined euro denominated notional amounts of 50.0 million , designated as cash flow hedges. during fiscal year 2013, we settled these euro denominated forward foreign exchange contracts. the derivative gains were amortized into interest and other expense, net when the hedged exposures affected interest and other expense, net. such amounts were not material for fiscal year 2013. in may 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. during each of fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011 , we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. in addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net. market risk market risk. we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures. foreign exchange risk. the potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the united states, generally in foreign currencies. our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. the intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the united states, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the united states, resulting in natural hedges. 54 table of contents although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the u.s. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, generally sales and net income will be positively but not proportionately impacted. foreign currency risk value-at-risk disclosure . we utilize a value-at-risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. as discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. our value-at-risk computation is based on the monte carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. as of december 29, 2013 , this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.6 million . this value-at-risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2013 , the value-at-risk ranged between $0.4 million and $1.0 million , with an average of approximately $0.6 million . interest rate risk. as described above in item 7. liquidity and capital resources, our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures. in may 2008 , we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 notes, and recognized $8.4 million , net of taxes of $5.4 million , of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. during each of fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011 , we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. in addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net. interest rate risk sensitivity . as of december 29, 2013 , our debt portfolio consisted of $397.0 million of variable rate debt. in addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $173.2 million at december 29, 2013 . our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows: (i) changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $397.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. an increase of 10% , or approximately 15 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.6 million for fiscal year 2014 . (ii) changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. as described above, an increase of 10% , or approximately 15 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.6 million for fiscal year 2014 . (iii) changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate. 55 table of contents