quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at september 30, 2006, the company had borrowings under its new senior secured credit facility of $650 million that was subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under the new senior secured credit facility bear interest, at its option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one, two, three or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine or twelve month) interest period chosen by transdigm inc., in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under its new senior secured credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under the new senior secured credit facility by approximately $6.5 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2006. the weighted average interest rate on the $650 million of borrowings under the new senior secured credit facility on september 30, 2006 was 7.39%. at september 30, 2006, we had an agreement in place to swap variable interest rates on the new senior secured credit facility for fixed interest rates through june 23, 2009 for the notional amount of $187 million, which will decrease to $170 million on september 23, 2007 and to $150 million on september 23, 2008 through june 23, 2009. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is adjusted at each balance sheet date, with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income. at september 30, 2006 the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement was a liability of $2.9 million. 43 table of contents because the interest rates on borrowings under the new senior secured credit facility vary with market conditions, the amount of outstanding borrowings under the new senior secured credit facility approximates the fair value of the indebtedness. the fair value of the $275 million aggregate principal amount of the transdigm inc. 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes is exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of such notes approximated $280 million at september 30, 2006 based upon the quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. future terrorist attacks may have a material adverse impact on our business. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, passenger traffic on commercial flights was significantly lower than prior to the attacks and many commercial airlines reduced their operating schedules. overall, the terrorist attacks resulted in billions of dollars in losses to the airline industry. any future acts of terrorism and any military response to such acts could result in further acts of terrorism and additional hostilities, including possible retaliatory attacks on sovereign nations, as well as financial, economic and political instability. while the precise effects of any such terrorist attack, military response or instability on our industry and our business is difficult to determine, it could result in further reductions in the use of commercial aircraft. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, demand for certain of our products would also decrease. our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles, or rpms, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, rpms declined primarily as a result of increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001. in addition to the events of september 11, 2001, in recent years, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred, and some in the industry continue to incur, large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. our sales to manufacturers of large aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, which accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in fiscal year 2007, have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. prior downturns have adversely affected our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our two largest customers for fiscal year 2007 were boeing (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) and honeywell international inc. these customers accounted for approximately 16% and 11%, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal year 2007. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2007 accounted for approximately 51% of our net sales. in addition, during the second half of fiscal 2006, the boeing company acquired aviall, inc. during fiscal 2006, the boeing company accounted for approximately 7% of our net sales and aviall, inc. accounted for approximately 9% of our net sales. therefore, boeing acquisition of aviall, inc. increases our reliance on the boeing company as a customer. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. 8 table of contents we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, some of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in many other cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover for increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs, although some contracts provide for renegotiation to address certain material adverse changes. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the u.s. department of defense, or the dod, budget has generally increased for each fiscal year from fiscal 1997 to the budget for fiscal 2007, and, based on the bush administration current future year defense program, the dod budget is expected to continue to increase modestly through fiscal 2010. however, future dod budgets after fiscal 2007 could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, the u.s. government budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in iraq and afghanistan and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures in the future could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. in addition, government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to modification and audit. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the u.s. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. 9 table of contents on contracts where the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. in addition to these u.s. government contract risks, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. a determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. certain of our divisions and subsidiaries have been subject to a pricing review by the dod office of inspector general. five of our divisions and subsidiaries have been the subject of a dod office of inspector general review of our records for the purpose of determining whether the dod various buying offices negotiated fair and reasonable prices for spare parts purchased from those divisions and subsidiaries during fiscal years 2002 through 2004. on april 19, 2006, the inspector general issued its final report dated february 23, 2006 and made public a redacted version of the report. the report recommends (i) that the defense logistics agency request that those five subsidiaries and divisions voluntarily refund, in the aggregate, approximately $2.6 million for allegedly overpriced parts and (ii) that defense logistics agency contracting officers reevaluate their procedures for determining the reasonableness of pricing for sole source spare parts purchased from those divisions and subsidiaries and seek to develop strategic supplier alliances with those divisions and subsidiaries. our position has been, and continues to be, that our pricing has been fair and reasonable and that there is no legal basis for the amount suggested as a refund by the inspector general in its report. in response to the report, we offered reasons why we disagree with the inspector general overall analysis and why computations related to the voluntary refund contained in the report fail to consider key data, such as actual historical sales. if the defense logistics agency requests a voluntary refund from any of our divisions or subsidiaries, we would consider such a request under the circumstances existing at that time. in february 2006, the defense logistics agency made a request to initiate discussions regarding future pricing and developing an acquisition strategy that would mutually strengthen our business relationship with the defense logistics agency. the parties have discussed future purchasing but negotiations regarding strategic supplier alliances have not commenced, but will likely occur at a later date. as a result of those negotiations, it is possible that the divisions and subsidiaries subject to the pricing review will enter into strategic supplier alliances with the defense logistics agency. it is likely that in connection with any strategic supplier alliance, the defense logistics agency will seek prices for parts based on cost. it is also possible that the dod may seek alternative sources of supply for such parts. the entry into strategic supplier alliances or a decision by the dod to pursue alternative sources of supply for parts we currently provide could reduce the amount of revenue we derive from, and the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations for the u.s. government. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. 10 table of contents our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness, including the notes. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2007, our total indebtedness was approximately $1,357.9 million (including premium received, net of amortization, in connection with the issuance of the original notes), which was approximately 73.6% of our total capitalization. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2007, we had $198.4 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although the senior secured credit facility, or the senior secured credit facility, and the indenture, or indenture, governing the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, or the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes a $780 million term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $200 million, will bear interest at floating rates. accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, the company entered into an interest rate swap in june 2006 for fixed interest rates on $187 million of the senior secured credit facility. this interest rate swap decreased to $170 million on september 23, 2007 and will decrease to $150 million on september 23, 2008 through june 23, 2009. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 11 table of contents we cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility and the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the indenture and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and the indenture may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the senior secured credit facility and the indenture contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indenture) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indenture include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indenture) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or suffer to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indenture. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. 12 table of contents we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2007, we had approximately 2,100 employees. approximately 5% of our employees were represented by the united steelworkers union, approximately 4% were represented by the united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america and approximately 4% were represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire in april 2008, november 2008 and may 2009, respectively. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under such environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, and the remediation of contamination. we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and/or third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. pursuant to certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of a contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may also be held liable for such costs related to a disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites, principally in connection with historical operations, and investigations and/or clean-ups have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. we also receive inquiries and notices of potential liability with respect to offsite disposal facilities from time to time. although we are not aware of any sites for which material obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants, the imposition of additional clean-up obligations or the initiation of suits for personal injury or damages to property or natural resources could result in significant liability. 13 table of contents we intend to pursue future acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. in addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. in addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. our acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, license agreements and technology, were approximately $334.9 million at september 30, 2007, representing approximately 16.2% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the warburg merger and other recent acquisitions was approximately $1,247.9 million at september 30, 2007, representing approximately 60.5% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets and our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting regulations, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies, including divisions of larger companies, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. 14 table of contents we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. our stock prices may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. a substantial amount of our outstanding stock is held by affiliates and not currently traded in the public market. while the sale of these shares into the open market may be limited by applicable regulations, the stockholders of these shares are not bound by any contractual obligations not to sell. thus, our existing stockholders may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets. in addition, we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our principal stockholder and its affiliates will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage the purchase of our outstanding shares at a premium. warburg pincus, through its control of td group, llc, is deemed to beneficially own approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock as of november 1, 2007. this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. these transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchase of common stock that could give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. as a result of warburg pincus significant ownership of td group, llc and representation on our board of directors, warburg pincus will be able to influence the affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. the interest of warburg pincus may differ from the interest of our other stockholders. for example, warburg pincus could oppose a third party offer to acquire us that you might consider attractive, and the third party may not be able or willing to proceed unless warburg pincus supports the offer. in addition, if our board of 15 table of contents directors supports a transaction requiring a vote of stockholders, warburg pincus is in a position to affect any required stockholder approval. in each of these cases and in similar situations, you may disagree with warburg pincus as to whether the action opposed or supported by warburg pincus is in the best interest of our stockholders. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. td group, llc, warburg pincus and their affiliates do not constitute interested stockholders for the purposes of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. we do not intend to pay regular cash dividends on our stock. we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted under out debt and other agreements. any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on dividend income from shares of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at september 30, 2007, the company had borrowings under its senior secured credit facility of $780 million that was subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under the senior secured credit facility bear interest, at its option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one, two, three or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine or twelve month) interest period chosen by transdigm inc., in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings 43 table of contents will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under its senior secured credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under the senior secured credit facility by approximately $7.8 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2007. the weighted average interest rate on the $780 million of borrowings under the senior secured credit facility on september 30, 2007 was 7.2%. at september 30, 2007, we had an agreement in place to swap variable interest rates on the senior secured credit facility for fixed interest rates through june 23, 2009 for the notional amount of $170 million, which will decrease to $150 million on september 23, 2008 through june 23, 2009. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is adjusted at each balance sheet date, with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income. at september 30, 2007 the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement was a liability of $2.9 million. because the interest rates on borrowings under the senior secured credit facility vary with market conditions, the amount of outstanding borrowings under the senior secured credit facility approximates the fair value of the indebtedness. the fair value of the $575 million aggregate principal amount of the transdigm inc. 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes is exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of such notes approximated $581 million at september 30, 2007 based upon the quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles, or rpms, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in recent years, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred, and some in the industry continue to incur, large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. future terrorist attacks may have a material adverse impact on our business. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, passenger traffic on commercial flights was significantly lower than prior to the attacks and many commercial airlines reduced their operating schedules. overall, the terrorist attacks resulted in billions of dollars in losses to the airline industry. any future acts of terrorism and any military response to such acts could result in further acts of terrorism and additional hostilities, including possible retaliatory attacks on sovereign nations, as well as financial, economic and political instability. while the precise effects of any such terrorist attack, military response or instability on our industry and our business is difficult to determine, it could result in further reductions in the use of commercial aircraft. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, demand for certain of our products would also decrease. our sales to manufacturers of large aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, which accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal year 2008, have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. prior downturns have adversely affected our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our two largest customers for fiscal year 2008 were boeing (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) and honeywell international inc. these two customers accounted for approximately 14% and 10%, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal year 2008. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2008 accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales. a reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, such as economic downturn, decreased production or strike, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and net income. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. 8 table of contents we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, some of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in many other cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover for increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs, although some contracts provide for renegotiation to address certain material adverse changes. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the u.s. department of defense, or the dod, budget has generally increased for each fiscal year from fiscal 1997 to the budget for fiscal 2008, and, based on the bush administration current future year defense program, the dod budget is expected to continue to increase modestly through fiscal 2010. however, future dod budgets after fiscal 2008 could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy following the 2008 presidential elections, the u.s. government budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in iraq and afghanistan and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures in the future could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue future acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. in addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess 9 table of contents costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. in addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. in addition, government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to modification and audit. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the u.s. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. on contracts where the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. in addition to these u.s. government contract risks, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. a determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. certain of our divisions and subsidiaries have been subject to a pricing review by the dod office of inspector general. five of our divisions and subsidiaries have been the subject of a dod office of inspector general review of our records for the purpose of determining whether the dod various buying offices negotiated fair and reasonable prices for spare parts purchased from those divisions and subsidiaries during fiscal years 2002 through 2004. on april 19, 2006, the inspector general issued its final report dated february 23, 2006 and made public a redacted version of the report. the report recommends (i) that the defense logistics agency request that those five subsidiaries and divisions voluntarily refund, in the aggregate, approximately $2.6 million for allegedly overpriced parts and (ii) that defense logistics agency contracting officers reevaluate their procedures for determining the reasonableness of pricing for sole source spare parts purchased from those divisions and subsidiaries and seek to develop strategic supplier alliances with those divisions and subsidiaries. 10 table of contents our position has been, and continues to be, that our pricing has been fair and reasonable and that there is no legal basis for the amount suggested as a refund by the inspector general in its report. in response to the report, we offered reasons why we disagree with the inspector general overall analysis and why computations related to the voluntary refund contained in the report fail to consider key data, such as actual historical sales. if the defense logistics agency requests a voluntary refund from any of our divisions or subsidiaries, we would consider such a request under the circumstances existing at that time. in february 2006, the defense logistics agency made a request to initiate discussions regarding future pricing and developing an acquisition strategy that would mutually strengthen our business relationship with the defense logistics agency. around that time, the parties discussed future purchasing but did not engage in negotiations regarding strategic supplier alliances. negotiations regarding strategic supplier alliances may occur at a later date. as a result of those negotiations, it is possible that the divisions and subsidiaries subject to the pricing review will enter into strategic supplier alliances with the defense logistics agency. it is likely that in connection with any strategic supplier alliance, the defense logistics agency will seek prices for parts based on cost. it is also possible that the dod may seek alternative sources of supply for such parts. the entry into strategic supplier alliances or a decision by the dod to pursue alternative sources of supply for parts we currently provide could reduce the amount of revenue we derive from, and the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations for the u.s. government. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness, including the notes. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2008, our total indebtedness was approximately $1,357.2 million (including premium received, net of amortization, in connection with the issuance of the original notes), which was approximately 67.5% of our total capitalization. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2008, we had $198.5 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although the senior secured credit facility, or the senior secured credit facility, and the indenture, or indenture, governing the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, or the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 11 table of contents place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes a $780 million term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $200 million, will bear interest at floating rates. accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, the company has entered into interest rate swaps that fix the rate of interest on $450 million of debt, as of september 30, 2008, under the senior secured credit facility. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility and the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the indenture and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and the indenture may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. the senior secured credit facility and the indenture contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indenture) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit 12 table of contents facility and indenture include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indenture) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indenture. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2008, we had approximately 2,100 employees. approximately 5% of our employees were represented by the united steelworkers union, approximately 3% were represented by the united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america and approximately 4% were represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire in april 2011, november 2012 and may 2009, respectively. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. 13 table of contents our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under such environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, and the remediation of contamination. we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and/or third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. pursuant to certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of a contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may also be held liable for such costs related to a disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites, principally in connection with historical operations, and investigations and/or clean-ups have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. we also receive inquiries and notices of potential liability with respect to offsite disposal facilities from time to time. although we are not aware of any sites for which material obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants, the imposition of additional clean-up obligations or the initiation of suits for personal injury or damages to property or natural resources could result in significant liability. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, license agreements and technology, were approximately $356.2 million at september 30, 2008, representing approximately 15.8% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $1,354.8 million at september 30, 2008, representing approximately 60.1% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets and our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting regulations, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies, including divisions of larger companies, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. competitors in our product lines are 14 table of contents both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. our stock prices may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. a significant amount of our outstanding stock is held by affiliates and not currently traded in the public market. while the sale of these shares into the open market may be limited by applicable regulations, the stockholders of these shares are not bound by any contractual obligations not to sell. thus, our existing stockholders may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets. in addition, we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our principal stockholder and its affiliates will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage the purchase of our outstanding shares at a premium. warburg pincus, through its control of td group, llc, is deemed to beneficially own approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock as of october 31, 2008. this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. these transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchase of common stock that could give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. 15 table of contents as a result of warburg pincus ownership of td group, llc and representation on our board of directors, warburg pincus will be able to influence the affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. the interest of warburg pincus may differ from the interest of our other stockholders. for example, warburg pincus could oppose a third party offer to acquire us that you might consider attractive, and the third party may not be able or willing to proceed unless warburg pincus supports the offer. in addition, if our board of directors supports a transaction requiring a vote of stockholders, warburg pincus is in a position to affect any required stockholder approval. in each of these cases and in similar situations, you may disagree with warburg pincus as to whether the action opposed or supported by warburg pincus is in the best interest of our stockholders. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. td group, llc, warburg pincus and their affiliates do not constitute interested stockholders for the purposes of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. we do not intend to pay regular cash dividends on our stock. we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted under out debt and other agreements. any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on dividend income from shares of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk at september 30, 2008, the company had borrowings under its senior secured credit facility of $780 million that was subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under the senior secured credit facility bear interest, at its option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one, two, three or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine or twelve month) interest period chosen by transdigm inc., in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under its senior secured credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under the senior secured credit facility by approximately $7.8 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2008. the weighted average interest rate on the $780 million of borrowings under the senior secured credit facility on september 30, 2008 was 5.2%. at september 30, 2008, we had an agreement in place to swap variable interest rates on the senior secured credit facility for fixed interest rates through june 23, 2009 for the notional amount of $150 million. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is adjusted at each balance sheet date, with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income. at september 30, 2008 the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement was a liability of $2.7 million. at september 30, 2008, we had an agreement in place to swap variable interest rates on our senior secured credit facility for fixed interest rates through march 23, 2011 for the notional amount of $300 million. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is adjusted at each balance sheet date, with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income. at september 30, 2008, the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement was an asset of $3.2 million. the fair value of the $780 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the senior secured credit facility is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. the estimated fair value of such term loan approximated $725 million at september 30, 2008 based upon information provided to the company from its agent under the credit facility. the fair value of the $575 million aggregate principal amount of the transdigm inc. 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes is exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of such notes approximated $529 million at september 30, 2008 based upon the quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles ( rpms ) the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in recent years, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred, and some in the industry continue to incur, large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. future terrorist attacks may have a material adverse impact on our business. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, passenger traffic on commercial flights was significantly lower than prior to the attacks and many commercial airlines reduced their operating schedules. overall, the terrorist attacks resulted in billions of dollars in losses to the airline industry. any future acts of terrorism and any military response to such acts could result in further acts of terrorism and additional hostilities, including possible retaliatory attacks on sovereign nations, as well as financial, economic and political instability. while the precise effects of any such terrorist attack, military response or instability on our industry and our business is difficult to determine, it could result in further reductions in the use of commercial aircraft. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, demand for certain of our products would also decrease. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets, which accounted for approximately 22% of our net sales in fiscal year 2009, have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. prior downturns have adversely affected our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our two largest customers for fiscal year 2009 were boeing (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) and honeywell international inc. these two customers accounted for approximately 13% and 9%, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal year 2009. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2009 accounted for approximately 44% of our net sales. a reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, such as economic downturn, decreased production or strike, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview. 8 table of contents we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the dod budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. future dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in iraq and afghanistan and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures in the future could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue future acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. in addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our 9 table of contents senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. in addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. in addition, government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to modification and audit. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the u.s. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. on contracts where the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. in addition to these u.s. government contract risks, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. a determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. certain of our divisions and subsidiaries have been subject to a pricing review by the dod office of inspector general. five of our divisions and subsidiaries have been the subject of a dod office of inspector general review of our records for the purpose of determining whether the dod various buying offices negotiated fair and reasonable prices for spare parts purchased from those divisions and subsidiaries during fiscal years 2002 through 2004. on april 19, 2006, the inspector general issued its final report dated february 23, 2006 and made public a redacted version of the report. the report recommends (i) that the defense logistics agency request that those five subsidiaries and divisions voluntarily refund, in the aggregate, approximately $2.6 million for allegedly overpriced parts and (ii) that defense logistics agency contracting officers reevaluate their procedures for determining the reasonableness of pricing for sole source spare parts purchased from those divisions and subsidiaries and seek to develop strategic supplier alliances with those divisions and subsidiaries. 10 table of contents our position has been, and continues to be, that our pricing has been fair and reasonable and that there is no legal basis for the amount suggested as a refund by the inspector general in its report. in response to the report, we offered reasons why we disagree with the inspector general overall analysis and why computations related to the voluntary refund contained in the report fail to consider key data, such as actual historical sales. if the defense logistics agency requests a voluntary refund from any of our divisions or subsidiaries, we would consider such a request under the circumstances existing at that time. in february 2006, the defense logistics agency made a request to initiate discussions regarding future pricing and developing an acquisition strategy that would mutually strengthen our business relationship with the defense logistics agency. around that time, the parties discussed future purchasing but have not engaged in negotiations regarding strategic supplier alliances. negotiations regarding strategic supplier alliances may occur at a later date. as a result of those negotiations, it is possible that the divisions and subsidiaries subject to the pricing review will enter into strategic supplier alliances with the defense logistics agency. it is likely that in connection with any strategic supplier alliance, the defense logistics agency will seek prices for parts based on cost. it is also possible that the dod may seek alternative sources of supply for such parts. the entry into strategic supplier alliances or a decision by the dod to pursue alternative sources of supply for parts we currently provide could reduce the amount of revenue we derive from, and the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness, including the notes. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2009, our total indebtedness was approximately $1,356.8 million (including premium received, net of amortization, in connection with the issuance of the original notes), which was approximately 62.4% of our total capitalization. in addition to the foregoing indebtedness outstanding on september 30, 2009, in october 2009, transdigm inc. issued $425 million aggregate principal amount of 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes ( new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes ) at an issue price of 97.125% of the principal amount thereof pursuant to an indenture dated october 6, 2009 (the new indenture and together, with the indenture referred to below, the indentures ). the terms of the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes are substantially identical to the terms of the already outstanding 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes that were issued and sold by transdigm inc. in june 2006 and february 2007. the proceeds from the issuance of the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, after the original issue discount, were used to make a cash distribution to td group, which paid a special cash dividend to its stockholders of approximately $375 million, made dividend equivalent payments to its holders of stock options of approximately $30 million and paid for transaction-related fees and expenses. our total indebtedness, on a pro forma basis as if the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes were issued and the special dividend was paid on september 30, 2009, represents approximately 81% of our capitalization. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2009, we had $198.0 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although 11 table of contents our senior secured credit facility, the indenture (the indenture ) governing the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes issued in june 2006 and february 2007 (the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes ) and the new indenture contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes a $780 million term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $200 million, bears interest at floating rates. accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, as of september 30, 2009, the company was party to an interest rate swap agreement that fixes the rate of interest on $300 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility and the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital 12 table of contents investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the indenture and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and the indenture may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indenture include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indenture. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and the holders of the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and/or the new 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. 13 table of contents we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2009, we had approximately 2,000 employees. approximately 4% of our employees were represented by the united steelworkers union, approximately 3% were represented by the united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america and approximately 4% were represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire in april 2011, november 2012 and may 2013, respectively. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under such environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, and the remediation of contamination. we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and/or third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. pursuant to certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of a contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may also be held liable for such costs related to a disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites, principally in connection with historical operations, and investigations and/or clean-ups have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. we also receive inquiries and notices of potential liability with respect to offsite disposal facilities from time to time. although we are not aware of any sites for which material obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants, the imposition of additional clean-up obligations or the initiation of suits for personal injury or damages to property or natural resources could result in significant liability. 14 table of contents we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, license agreements and technology, were approximately $372.9 million at september 30, 2009, representing approximately 15% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $1,462.3 million at september 30, 2009, representing approximately 60% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting regulations, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies, including divisions of larger companies, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. our stock prices may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. 15 table of contents future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not intend to pay regular cash dividends on our stock. notwithstanding the special cash dividend paid in october 2009, we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on dividend income from shares of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2009, we had borrowings under our senior secured credit facility of $780 million that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our senior secured credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our senior secured credit facility by approximately $7.8 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2009. the weighted average interest rate on the $780 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facility on september 30, 2009 was 2.3%. at september 30, 2009, we had an agreement in place to swap variable interest rates on our senior secured credit facility for fixed interest rates through march 23, 2011 for the notional amount of $300 million. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is adjusted at each balance sheet date, with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income. at september 30, 2009, the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement was a liability of $7.8 million. the fair value of the $780 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the senior secured credit facility is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. the estimated fair value of such term loan approximated $749 million at september 30, 2009 based upon information provided to the company from its agent under the credit facility. the fair value of the $575 million aggregate principal amount of our 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes is exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of such notes approximated $571 million at september 30, 2009 based upon quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial 6 table of contents airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in recent years, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq. in addition, recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with continued turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred, and some in the industry continue to incur, large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. future terrorist attacks may have a material adverse impact on our business. following the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, passenger traffic on commercial flights was significantly lower than prior to the attacks and many commercial airlines reduced their operating schedules. overall, the terrorist attacks resulted in billions of dollars in losses to the airline industry. any future acts of terrorism and any military response to such acts could result in further acts of terrorism and additional hostilities, including possible retaliatory attacks on sovereign nations, as well as financial, economic and political instability. while the precise effects of any such terrorist attack, military response or instability on our industry and our business is difficult to determine, it could result in further reductions in the use of commercial aircraft. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, demand for certain of our products would also decrease. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets, which accounted for approximately 20% of our net sales in fiscal year 2010, have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. prior downturns have adversely affected our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our largest customer for fiscal year 2010 was the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world). boeing accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal year 2010. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2010 accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales. a reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, such as economic downturn, decreased production or strike, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, 7 table of contents our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. future dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in iraq and afghanistan and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures in the future could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue future acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. in addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could likely (and, if the mckechnie acquisition is consummated, would) result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire (including, potentially, the mckechnie business) into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may (and if the mckechnie acquisition is consummated, will) also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. furthermore, if the mckechnie acquisition is consummated, the integration of mckechnie into our operations will require significant one-time costs. in addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities 8 table of contents simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. assuming consummation of the mckechnie acquisition, if we have difficulties in integrating the acquisition or if the benefits we expect to achieve from the acquisition do not materialize, our substantial indebtedness incurred to fund the acquisition and/or the substantial attention required from our management could result in our having to forego other opportunities. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts where the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. in addition, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable. five of our subsidiaries and divisions were subject to such a pricing review for years 2002 through 2004 and it is possible that we will be subject to a similar pricing review in the future. such a review could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. 9 table of contents in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. a determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2010, our total indebtedness was approximately $1,771.6 million (including discount or premium, net of amortization, in connection with the issuance of the original notes), which was approximately 74.9% of our total capitalization. if we consummate the mckechnie acquisition, we expect to add approximately $1,300 million of indebtedness. accordingly, we expect that indebtedness would represent approximately 84% of our total capitalization as of september 30, 2010 on a pro forma basis. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2010, we had approximately $198.0 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. if we consummate the mckechnie acquisition, we expect to obtain a new revolving loan facility with available borrowings of up to $300 million. although our senior secured credit facility, the indentures (the indentures ) governing the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes issued in june 2006, february 2007 and october 2009 (the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes a $780 million term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $200 million, bears interest at floating rates. if we consummate the mckechnie acquisition, we expect that we would have a higher amount of term loans and a revolving facility of $300 million bearing interest at floating rates. accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, as of september 30, 2010, the company was party to an interest rate swap agreement that fixes the rate of interest through march 23, 2011 on $300 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and, if the mckechnie acquisition is consummated, any new 10 table of contents notes issued and other indebtedness incurred in connection therewith. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as any new notes that will be issued and other indebtedness incurred if the mckechnie acquisition is consummated) and amounts borrowed under the credit facilities, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility and the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as any new notes that will be issued and other indebtedness incurred if the mckechnie acquisition is consummated), or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as any new notes that will be issued if the mckechnie acquisition is consummated). the terms of the senior secured credit facility, indentures and other debt instruments may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our existing senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; 11 table of contents enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we expect that any new credit facility or new senior subordinated notes entered into or issued in connection with the financing of the mckechnie acquisition would also contain restrictive covenants and significant operating and financial restrictions on td group. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and/or third party property damage or personal injury claims as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. changes in environmental, health and safety laws or regulations or other new regulations could increase our costs of doing business or adversely impact the demand for our products. pursuant to certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of a contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials may also be held liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of those substances at a disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites, principally in connection with historical operations, and investigations and/or clean-ups have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. we also receive inquiries and notices of potential liability with respect to offsite disposal facilities from time to time. although we are not aware of any sites for which material obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants, the imposition of additional clean-up obligations at these or other sites, the failure of any other potentially liable party to meet its obligations or the initiation of suits for personal injury or damages to property or natural resources could result in significant liability. mckechnie is a party to a number of legal proceedings and is responsible, in whole or in part, for remediation at a number of owned or third-party sites, for which mckechnie has reserves on its balance sheet. 12 table of contents assuming the mckechnie acquisition is consummated, if the amount of any reserves we establish in connection with those remediations and related legal liabilities is significantly less than the actual costs incurred to satisfy those liabilities, our operating results could be materially impacted. we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2010, we had approximately 2,400 employees. approximately 3% of our employees were represented by the united steelworkers union, approximately 2% were represented by the united automobile, aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america and approximately 3% were represented by the international brotherhood of electrical workers. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire in april 2011, november 2012 and may 2013, respectively. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, license agreements and technology, were approximately $400.4 million at september 30, 2010, representing approximately 15% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $1,571.7 million at september 30, 2010, representing approximately 59% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies, including divisions of larger companies, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote 13 table of contents greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. our stock prices may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy 14 table of contents contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not intend to pay regular cash dividends on our stock. notwithstanding the special cash dividend paid in october 2009, we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on dividend income from shares of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2010, we had borrowings under our senior secured credit facility of $780 million that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our senior secured credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our senior secured credit facility by approximately $7.8 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2010. the weighted average interest rate on the $780 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facility on september 30, 2010 was 2.4%. at september 30, 2010, we had an agreement in place to swap variable interest rates on our senior secured credit facility for fixed interest rates through march 23, 2011 for the notional amount of $300 million. the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is adjusted at each balance sheet date, with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income. at september 30, 2010, the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement was a liability of $3.9 million. the fair value of the $780 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under the senior secured credit facility is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. the estimated fair value of such term loan approximated $762 million at september 30, 2010 based upon information provided to the company from its agent under the credit facility. the fair value of the $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of our 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes is exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of such notes approximated $1,010 million at september 30, 2010 based upon quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the past decade, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe 6 table of contents acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with continued turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets, which accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal year 2011, have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. prior downturns have adversely affected our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our largest customer for fiscal year 2011 was the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world). boeing accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in fiscal year 2011. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2011 accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales. a reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, such as economic downturn, decreased production or strike, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to 7 table of contents the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. future dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in iraq and afghanistan and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures in the future could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue future acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. 8 table of contents on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. in addition, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable . five of our subsidiaries and divisions were subject to such a pricing review for years 2002 through 2004 and it is possible that we will be subject to a similar pricing review in the future. such a review could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. a determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2011, our total indebtedness was approximately $3,138.4 million, which was approximately 79.5% of our total capitalization. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2011, we had approximately $237.0 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures (the indentures ) governing the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes issued in december 2010 (the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; 9 table of contents limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes a $1.55 billion term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $245 million, bears interest at floating rates. accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, as of september 30, 2011, the company was party to three forward starting interest rate swap agreements that fix the rate of interest beginning december 31, 2012 through june 30, 2015 on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes and amounts borrowed under the credit facilities, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility and the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of 10 table of contents the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. at certain facilities acquired in connection with the acquisition of mckechnie aerospace or third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of mckechnie aerospace, subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company prior experience and professional judgment of the company environmental specialists. estimates of the company environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. 11 table of contents accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable, which generally is not later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. the liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are made as necessary. liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present value. the liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal superfund sites or similar state-managed sites, third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites. we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2011, we had approximately 3,800 full time, part time and temporary employees. approximately 16% of our employees were represented by labor unions. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from february 2012 to april 2014. we consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to curtail or cease operations. six of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, 12 table of contents including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. if any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be impaired. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, license agreements and technology, were approximately $828.4 million at september 30, 2011, representing approximately 18% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $2,595.7 million at september 30, 2011, representing approximately 58% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. 13 table of contents future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not intend to pay regular cash dividends on our stock. notwithstanding the special cash dividend paid in october 2009, we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on dividend income from shares of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2011, we had borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility of $1.54 billion that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our new senior secured credit facility by approximately $15.4 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2011. the weighted average interest rate on the $1.54 billion of borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility on september 30, 2011 was 4.0%. at september 30, 2011, three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were in place to swap variable rates on the new senior secured credit facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million. beginning december 31, 2012, these interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the new senior secured credit facility to a fixed rate of 5.17% through june 30, 2015. the fair value of the $1.54 billion aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. the estimated fair value of such term loan approximated $1.50 billion at september 30, 2011 based upon information provided to the company from its agent under the credit facility. the fair value of the $1.60 billion aggregate principal amount of our 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes due 2018 is exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of such notes approximated $1.62 billion at september 30, 2011 based upon quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the recent past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe 6 table of contents acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with continued turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets, which accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales in fiscal year 2012, have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. prior downturns have adversely affected our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our largest customer for fiscal year 2012 was the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world). boeing accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal year 2012. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2012 accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales. a reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, such as economic downturn, decreased production or strike, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. future dod budgets could 7 table of contents be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in the middle east and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures in the future could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue future acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. 8 table of contents on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. in addition, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable . five of our subsidiaries and divisions were subject to such a pricing review for years 2002 through 2004 and it is possible that we will be subject to a similar pricing review in the future. such a review could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. a determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2012, our total indebtedness was approximately $3,619.1 million, which was approximately 74.8% of our total capitalization. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2012, we had approximately $302.9 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures (together with the indenture governing the 5 1 / 2 % notes discussed below, the indentures ) governing the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes issued in december 2010 (the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; 9 table of contents require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes a $2.02 billion term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $310.0 million, bears interest at floating rates. accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, as of september 30, 2012, the company was party to three forward starting interest rate swap agreements that fix the rate of interest beginning december 31, 2012 through june 30, 2015 on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. on october 9, 2012, the company amended the secured credit facility to provide for an additional term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $150 million. the additional term loan facility was fully drawn on october 15, 2012. the company also issued $550 million in aggregate principal amount of its 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes due 2020 (the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes ) at an issue price of 100% of the principal amount on october 15, 2012. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes). we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes) and amounts borrowed under the credit facilities, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility and the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes), or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us 10 table of contents to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes). the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes) may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes). if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes (as well as the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes) were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the 11 table of contents health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company prior experience and professional judgment of the company environmental specialists. estimates of the company environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable, which generally is not later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. the liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are made as necessary. liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present value. the liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal superfund sites or similar state-managed sites, third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites. we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2012, we had approximately 5,400 full time, part time and temporary employees. approximately 12% of our employees were represented by labor unions. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from november 2012 to april 2016. we consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our 12 table of contents suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to curtail or cease operations. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. if any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be impaired. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, license agreements and technology, were approximately $1,123.6 million at september 30, 2012, representing approximately 21% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $3,035.5 million at september 30, 2012, representing approximately 56% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. 13 table of contents our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not pay regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. on october 15, 2012 the company board of directors authorized and declared a special cash dividend of $12.85 on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments under certain of its 14 table of contents stock option plans. the special cash dividend amounting to approximately $663.5 million was paid in november 2012 and dividend equivalent payments amounting to approximately $36.0 million will be paid prior to december 31, 2012. the company declared and paid a special cash dividend of $7.65 on each outstanding share of common stock in october 2009. notwithstanding the special cash dividends paid in october 2009 and november 2012, we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2012, we had borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility of $2.02 billion that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our new senior secured credit facility by approximately $20.2 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2012. the weighted average interest rate on the $2.02 billion of borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility on september 30, 2012 was 4.0%. at september 30, 2012, three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were in place to swap variable rates on the new senior secured credit facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million. beginning december 31, 2012, these interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the new senior secured credit facility to a fixed rate of 5.17% through june 30, 2015. the fair value of the $2.02 billion aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our new senior secured credit facility is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. the estimated fair value of such term loan approximated $2.04 billion at september 30, 2012 based upon information provided to the company from its agent under the credit facility. the fair value of the $1.60 billion aggregate principal amount of our 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes due 2018 is exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of such notes approximated $1.70 billion at september 30, 2012 based upon quoted market rates. 50 table of contentsrisk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the recent past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with continued turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets, which accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales in fiscal year 2013, have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. downturns adversely affect our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our largest customer for fiscal year 2013 was the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world). boeing accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal year 2013. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2013 accounted for approximately 41% of our net sales. a material reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, including but not limited to economic downturn, decreased production, strike or resourcing, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, 7 table of contents our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in the middle east and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including regulatory complications or difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. 8 table of contents we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. in addition, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable . five of our subsidiaries and divisions were subject to such a pricing review for years 2002 through 2004 and it is possible that we will be subject to a similar pricing review in the future. such a review could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. failure to obtain approval to export or determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. 9 table of contents our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2013, our total indebtedness was approximately $5,731.2 million, which was approximately 106.2% of our total capitalization because of our recent dividends funded with indebtedness. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2013, we had approximately $303.2 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures (the indentures ) governing the 7 3 / 4 % senior subordinated notes issued in december 2010 (the 2018 notes ), the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes issued in october 2012 (the 2020 notes ), and the 7 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes issued in july 2013 (the 2021 notes ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes a $3.1 billion term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $310.0 million, bears interest at floating rates. accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, as of september 30, 2013, three forward starting interest rate swap agreements were in place fixing the rate of interest through june 30, 2015 on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. in addition, in fiscal 2013, the company entered into three forward starting interest rate swap agreements that fix the interest beginning september 30, 2014 on an aggregate notional amount of $1.0 billion of debt under the senior secured credit facility. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the 2018 notes, 2020 notes and the 2021 notes. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. 10 table of contents to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 2018 notes, 2020 notes, 2021 notes and amounts borrowed under the credit facilities, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility and the 2018 notes, 2020 notes and the 2021 notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 2018 notes, 2020 notes and the 2021 notes. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. 11 table of contents a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 2018 notes, 2020 notes and the 2021 notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 2018 notes, 2020 notes and the 2021 notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the 2018 notes, 2020 notes and the 2021 notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company prior experience and professional judgment of the company environmental advisors. estimates of the company environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable, which generally is not later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. the liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are made as necessary. liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present value. the liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal superfund sites or similar state-managed sites, third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites. 12 table of contents we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2013, we had approximately 6,100 full time, part time and temporary employees. approximately 13% of our full time and part time employees were represented by labor unions. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from february 2014 to may 2018. we consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones and hurricane paths, and the occurrence of a natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to curtail or cease operations. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. in addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are located along the eastern seaboard area susceptible to hurricanes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. if any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be impaired. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, and technology, were approximately $1,189.5 million at september 30, 2013, representing approximately 19% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $3,343.9 million at september 30, 2013, representing approximately 54% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. 13 table of contents we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. in addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year 14 table of contents terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our board of directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our board of directors. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not pay regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. on october 15, 2012 the company board of directors authorized and declared a special cash dividend of $12.85 on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments to holders of options under its stock option plans. the special cash dividend amounting to approximately $664.3 million in the aggregate was paid in november 2012. on july 3, 2013 the company board of directors authorized and declared a special cash dividend of $22.00 on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments to holders of options under certain of its stock option plans. the special cash dividend amounting to approximately $1,155.8 million in the aggregate was paid in july 2013. notwithstanding the special cash dividends paid in october 2012 and july 2013, we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay future special cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of special cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and you should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2013, we had borrowings under our 2013 credit facility of $3.08 billion that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our 2013 credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our 2013 credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our 2013 credit facility by approximately $30.8 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2013. the weighted average interest rate on the $3.08 billion of borrowings under our 2013 credit facility on september 30, 2013 was 3.8%. at september 30, 2013, three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were in place to swap variable rates on the 2013 credit facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million. these interest rate swap agreement converted the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2013 credit facility to a fixed rate of 5.17% (2.17% plus the 3% margin percentage) through june 30, 2015. on july 16, 2013, the company entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning september 30, 2014 to hedge the variable interest rates on the 2013 credit facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $1.0 billion through june 30, 2019. these forward-starting interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2013 credit facility to a fixed rate of 5.4% (2.4% plus the 3% margin percentage) over the term of the interest rate swap agreements. the fair value of the $3.08 billion aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our 2013 credit facility is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. the estimated fair value of such term loan approximated $3.07 billion at september 30, 2013 based upon information provided to the company from its agent under the 52 table of contents 2013 credit facility. the fair value of the $1.60 billion aggregate principal amount of our 2018 notes, $0.55 billion 2020 notes and our $0.50 billion 2021 notes due are exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of the 2018 notes approximated $1.71 billion, the estimated fair value of the 2020 notes approximated $0.54 billion and the estimated fair value of the 2021 notes approximated $0.54 billion at september 30, 2013 based upon quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic and geopolitical and other worldwide conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the recent past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq, and could be impacted by future geopolitical or other worldwide conditions, such as war, terrorist acts, or a worldwide infectious disease outbreak. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with continued turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets (which accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales in fiscal year 2014) have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. downturns adversely affect our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our largest customer for fiscal year 2014 was the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world). boeing accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal year 2014. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2014 accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales. a material reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, including but not limited to economic downturn, decreased production, strike or resourcing, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. 7 table of contents we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in the middle east and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including regulatory complications or difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could result in margin dilution and further likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses 8 table of contents and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. in addition, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable . five of our subsidiaries and divisions were subject to such a pricing review for years 2002 through 2004 and it is possible that we will be subject to a similar pricing review in the future. such a review could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. failure to obtain approval to export or determination by the u.s. government 9 table of contents that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2014, our total indebtedness was approximately $7,473.1 million, which was approximately 126.3% of our total capitalization because of our recent dividends funded with indebtedness. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2014, we had approximately $413.2 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility and $25.0 million of unused capacity under our trade receivable securitization facility (the securitization facility ) (with the availability of such capacity being dependent on the amount of our outstanding trade receivables). although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures (the indentures ) governing the 5 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes issued in october 2012 (the 2020 notes ), the 7 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes issued in july 2013 (the 2021 notes ), the 6% senior subordinated notes issued in june 2014 (the 2022 notes), and the 6 1 / 2 % senior subordinated notes issued june 2014 (the 2024 notes and together with the 2020 notes, the 2021 notes, the 2022 notes, the notes ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial debt could also have other important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; increase the risk we are subjected to downgrade or put on a negative watch by the ratings agencies; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes a $3.9 billion term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $420.0 million, bears interest at floating rates. accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, as of september 30, 2014, three forward starting interest rate swap agreements were in place fixing the rate of interest through june 30, 2015 on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. an additional three forward starting interest rate swap agreements were in place that fix the interest beginning september 30, 2014 on an aggregate notional amount of $1.0 billion of debt under the senior secured credit facility. in addition, in july 2014, we entered into five forward starting interest rate swap agreements that fix the interest beginning march 31, 2016 on an aggregate notional amount of $750 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. 10 table of contents our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the notes. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the notes, amounts borrowed under the credit facilities, amounts due under our securitization facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts borrowed under our securitization facility and the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the notes. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; 11 table of contents consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company prior experience and professional judgment of the company environmental advisors. estimates of the company environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company financial condition. environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable, which generally is not later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. the liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are made as necessary. liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present value. the liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal superfund sites or similar state-managed sites, third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites. 12 table of contents we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2014, we had approximately 7,300 full time, part time and temporary employees. approximately 11% of our full time and part time employees were represented by labor unions. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from february 2015 to may 2018. we consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones and hurricane paths, and the occurrence of a natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to curtail or cease operations. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. in addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are located along the eastern seaboard area susceptible to hurricanes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. if any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be impaired. the company subsidiaries which operate outside of the continental united states may be subject to additional risks. a number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. furthermore, the company is subject to laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, agents and contractors from making improper payments to governmental officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject the company to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect the company results of operations. 13 table of contents we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future products liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, and technology, were approximately $1,217.2 million at september 30, 2014, representing approximately 18% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $3,525.1 million at september 30, 2014, representing approximately 52% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 14 table of contents our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not pay regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. on october 15, 2012, july 3, 2013 and june 4, 2014 the company board of directors authorized and declared special cash dividends of $12.85, $22.00 and $25.00, respectively, on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments to holders of options under its stock option plans. notwithstanding the special cash dividends paid in october 2012, july 2013 and june 2014, we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay future special cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of special cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and you should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2014, we had borrowings under our 2014 credit facility of $3.87 billion that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our 2014 credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libo rate for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our 2014 credit facility. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our 2014 credit facility by approximately $38.7 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2014. the weighted average interest rate on the $3.87 billion of borrowings under our 2013 credit facility on september 30, 2014 was 3.8%. 50 table of contents at september 30, 2014, three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were in place to swap variable rates on the 2014 credit facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million. these interest rate swap agreement converted the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2014 credit facility to a fixed rate of 5.17% (2.17% plus the 3% margin percentage) through june 30, 2015. on july 16, 2013, the company entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning september 30, 2014 to hedge the variable interest rates on the 2014 credit facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $1.0 billion through june 30, 2019. these forward-starting interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2014 credit facility to a fixed rate of 5.4% (2.4% plus the 3% margin percentage) over the term of the interest rate swap agreements. on july 24, 2014, the company entered into five forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning march 31, 2016 to hedge the variable interest rates on the 2014 credit facility for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $750 million through june 30, 2020. these forward-starting interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2014 credit facility to a fixed rate of 5.8% (2.8% plus the 3% margin percentage) over the term of the interest rate swap agreements. the fair value of the $3.87 billion aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our 2014 credit facility is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. the estimated fair value of such term loan approximated $3.82 billion at september 30, 2014 based upon information provided to the company from its agent under the 2014 credit facility. the fair value of our $0.55 billion 2020 notes, our $0.50 billion 2021 notes, our $1.15 billion 2022 notes and our $1.2 billion 2024 notes are exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of the 2020 notes approximated $0.53 billion, the estimated fair value of the 2021 notes approximated $0.53 billion, the estimated fair value of the 2022 notes approximated $1.12 billion and the estimated fair value of the 2024 notes approximated $1.18 billion at september 30, 2014 based upon quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. 5 table of contents our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers' planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers' profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic and geopolitical and other worldwide conditions. our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the recent past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome, or sars, epidemic and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq, and could be impacted by future geopolitical or other worldwide conditions, such as war, terrorist acts, or a worldwide infectious disease outbreak. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with continued turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets (which accounted for approximately 24% of our net sales in fiscal year 2015) have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of september 11, 2001. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. downturns adversely affect our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our two largest customers for fiscal year 2015 were the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc., a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world) and airbus s.a.s. the boeing company accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales and airbus s.a.s. accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales in fiscal year 2015. our top ten customers for fiscal year 2015 accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales. a material reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, including but not limited to economic downturn, decreased production, strike or resourcing, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government's budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in the middle east and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain 6 table of contents unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including regulatory complications or difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could result in margin dilution and further likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. furthermore, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable. our subsidiaries are periodically subject to a pricing review. such a review could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. moreover, u.s. government purchasing regulations contain a number of additional operation requirements, which do not apply to entities not engaged in government contracting. failure to comply with such government contracting requirements could result in civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. 7 table of contents our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. failure to obtain approval to export or determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2015 , our total indebtedness was approximately $8,427.3 million , which was approximately 114.1% of our total book capitalization because of our prior year dividends being funded with indebtedness and the addition of approximately $954 million in total debt in fiscal 2015 . in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2015 , we had approximately $534 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility and $50 million of unused capacity under our trade receivable securitization facility (the securitization facility ) (with the availability of the capacity under the securitization facility being dependent on the amount of our trade receivables outstanding). although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures (the indentures ) governing the 5.50% senior subordinated notes issued in october 2012 (the 2020 notes ), the 7.50% senior subordinated notes issued in july 2013 (the 2021 notes ), the 6.00% senior subordinated notes issued in june 2014 (the 2022 notes), the 6.50% senior subordinated notes issued june 2014 (the 2024 notes ) and the 6.50% senior subordinated notes issued may 2015 ((the 2025 notes ) and together with the 2020 notes, the 2021 notes, the 2022 notes, the 2024 notes, the notes ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage would increase. our substantial debt could also have other important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; increase the risk we are subjected to downgrade or put on a negative watch by the ratings agencies; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes $4,377 million in term loans and a revolving loan facility of $550 million, bears interest at floating rates. accordingly, if interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, as of september 30, 2015 , six interest rate cap agreements beginning on september 30, 2015 were in place to offset the variable interest rates based on an aggregate notional amount of $750 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. also, three forward starting interest rate swap agreements were in place that fix the interest on an aggregate notional amount of $1,000 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. in addition, we entered into five forward starting interest rate swap agreements that fix the interest beginning march 31, 2016 on an aggregate notional amount of $750 million of debt under the senior secured credit facility. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the notes. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. 8 table of contents to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the notes, amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts due under our securitization facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule, or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts borrowed under our securitization facility and the notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the securitization facility, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the notes. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. 9 table of contents we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company's prior experience and professional judgment of the company's environmental advisors. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company's accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. environmental liabilities are recorded when the liability is probable and the costs are reasonably estimable, which generally is not later than at completion of a feasibility study or when the company has recommended a remedy or has committed to an appropriate plan of action. the liabilities are reviewed periodically and, as investigation and remediation proceed, adjustments are made as necessary. liabilities for losses from environmental remediation obligations do not consider the effects of inflation and anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present value. the liabilities are not reduced by possible recoveries from insurance carriers or other third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among potentially responsible parties at federal superfund sites or similar state-managed sites, third party indemnity obligations, and an assessment of the likelihood that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites. we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. as of september 30, 2015, we had approximately 8,200 full-time, part-time and temporary employees. approximately 8% of our full-time and part-time employees were represented by labor unions. collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire at various dates ranging from april 2016 to may 2018. we consider our relationship with our employees generally to be satisfactory. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers' facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers' employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. 10 table of contents our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones and hurricane paths, and the occurrence of a natural disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to curtail or cease operations. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. in addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are located along the eastern seaboard area susceptible to hurricanes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. disruptions could also occur due to cyber-attacks, computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error or process failures. any disruption of our ability to operate our business could result in a material decrease in our revenues or significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. operations and sales outside of the united states may be subject to additional risks. a number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. furthermore, the company is subject to laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act or similar local anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, agents and contractors from making improper payments to governmental officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject the company to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect the company's results of operations. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future product liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. we could incur substantial costs as a result of data protection concerns. the interpretation and application of data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. compliance could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, despite our efforts to protect confidential information, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to data loss, including cyber-attacks. this could lead to negative publicity, legal claims, theft, modification or destruction of proprietary or key information, damage to or inaccessibility of critical systems, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, and technology, were approximately $1,539.9 million at september 30, 2015 , representing approximately 18.3% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $4,686.2 million at september 30, 2015 , representing approximately 55.6% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to 11 table of contents determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. you may not be able to sell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders' ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not pay regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. on october 15, 2012, july 3, 2013 and june 4, 2014 the company's board of directors authorized and declared special cash dividends of $12.85, $22.00 and $25.00, respectively, on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments to holders of options under its stock option plans. notwithstanding the special cash dividends paid in october 2012, july 2013 and june 2014, we do not anticipate declaring or paying regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay future special cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of special cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, you should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and you should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. 12 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2015 , we had borrowings under our term loans of approximately $4,377 million that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our term loans bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libor for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company's cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our term loans. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our term loans by approximately $44 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2015 . the weighted average interest rate on the $4,377 million of borrowings under our term loans on september 30, 2015 was 4.0%. at september 30, 2015 , five forward-starting interest rate swap agreements beginning march 31, 2016 were in place to hedge the variable interest rates on the 2014 term loans for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $750 million through june 30, 2020. these forward-starting interest rate swap agreements will effectively convert the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2014 term loans to a fixed rate of 5.8% ( 2.8% plus the 3% margin percentage ) over the term of the interest rate swap agreements. at september 30, 2015 , three interest rate swap agreements beginning september 30, 2014 were in place to hedge the variable interest rates on the 2014 term loans for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $1,000 million through june 30, 2019. these interest rate swap agreements converted the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2014 term loans to a fixed rate of 5.4% ( 2.4% plus the 3% margin percentage ) over the term of the interest rate swap agreements. during the fiscal year ended september 30, 2015 , three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were in place to swap variable rates on the 2014 term loans for a fixed rate based on an aggregate notional amount of $353 million through june 30, 2015. these interest rate swap agreements converted the variable interest rate on the aggregate notional amount of the 2014 term loans to a fixed rate of 5.2% ( 2.2% plus the 3% margin percentage ) over the term of the interest rate swap agreements. at september 30, 2015 , six interest rate cap agreements beginning september 30, 2015 were in place to offset the variable interest rates on the 2015 term loans based on an aggregate notional amount of $750 million . these interest rate cap agreements offset the variability in expected future cash flows on the company's variable rate debt attributable to fluctuations above the three month libor of 2.5% through june 30, 2020. the fair value of the approximately $4,377 million aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our term loans is exposed to the market risk of interest rates. the estimated fair value of such term loans approximated $4,344 million at september 30, 2015 based upon information provided to the company from its agent under the term loans. the fair value of our $550 million 2020 notes, our $500 million 2021 notes, our $1,150 million 2022 notes, our $1,200 million 2024 notes and our $450 million 2025 notes are exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes. the estimated fair value of the 2020 notes approximated $520 million , the estimated fair value of the 2021 notes approximated $524 million , the estimated fair value of the 2022 notes approximated $1,081 million , the estimated fair value of the 2024 notes approximated $1,119 million and the estimated fair value of the 2025 notes approximated $417 million at september 30, 2015 based upon quoted market rates.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our commercial business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers' planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers' profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic and geopolitical and other worldwide conditions. our commercial business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) epidemic, and the conflicts in afghanistan and iraq, and could be impacted by future geopolitical or other worldwide events, such as war, terrorist acts, or a worldwide infectious disease outbreak. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. if demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. an adverse change in demand could impact our results of operations, collection of accounts receivable and our expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses which may adversely impact our financial condition and access to capital markets. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets (which accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales in fiscal year 2016 ) have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. downturns adversely affect our net sales, gross margin and net income. 6 table of contents we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our two largest customers for fiscal year 2016 were airbus s.a.s. (which includes satair a/s) and the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc.). airbus s.a.s. accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales and the boeing company accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal year 2016 . our top ten customers for fiscal year 2016 accounted for approximately 45% of our net sales. a material reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, including but not limited to economic downturn, decreased production, strike or resourcing, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government's budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence in the middle east and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including regulatory complications or difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could result in margin dilution and further likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. 7 table of contents we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts based on alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. furthermore, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable. our subsidiaries are periodically subject to a pricing review. such a review could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. moreover, u.s. government purchasing regulations contain a number of additional operation requirements, which do not apply to entities not engaged in government contracting. failure to comply with such government contracting requirements could result in civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. failure to obtain approval to export or determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2016 , our total indebtedness, excluding approximately $17 million of outstanding letters of credit, was approximately $10.2 billion , which was 106.8% of our total book capitalization as a result of our prior year dividends being funded with indebtedness and the addition of approximately $1.8 billion in net new debt during fiscal 2016 . we also incurred additional indebtedness subsequent to september 30, 2016 more fully described in note 23, subsequent events in the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2016 , we had approximately $583 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility and $50 million of unused capacity under our trade receivable securitization facility (the securitization facility ) (with the availability of the capacity under the securitization facility being dependent on the amount of our trade receivables). although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the various senior subordinated notes outstanding (the indentures ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. for example, if the usage of the revolving loan facility exceeds 25% of the total revolving commitments, the company will be 8 table of contents required to maintain a maximum consolidated net leverage ratio of net debt, as defined, to trailing four-quarter ebitda as defined. a breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. our substantial debt could also have other important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; increase the risk we are subjected to downgrade or put on a negative watch by the ratings agencies; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes $5.3 billion in term loans and a revolving loan facility of $600 million, bears interest at floating rates. accordingly, if interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. interest rate swap and cap agreements are used to manage interest rate risk associated with floating-rate borrowings under our credit facilities. for information about our interest rate swap and cap agreements, see note 20, derivatives and hedging instruments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the indentures. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the indentures, amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts due under our securitization facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule, or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts borrowed under our securitization facility and the indentures, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the securitization facility, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the indentures. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among 9 table of contents other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company's prior experience and professional judgment of the company's environmental advisors. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company's accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. we are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because 10 table of contents we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers' facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers' employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. our operations depend on our manufacturing facilities, which are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. in addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are located along the eastern seaboard area susceptible to hurricanes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. disruptions could also occur due to cyber-attacks, computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error or process failures. any disruption of our ability to operate our business could result in a material decrease in our revenues or significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. operations and sales outside of the united states may be subject to additional risks. a number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. furthermore, the company is subject to laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, uk bribery act and similar local anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, agents and contractors from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject the company to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect the company's results of operations. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future product liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. 11 table of contents we could incur substantial costs as a result of data protection concerns. the interpretation and application of data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. compliance could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, despite our efforts to protect confidential information, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to data loss, including cyber-attacks. this could lead to negative publicity, legal claims, theft, modification or destruction of proprietary or key information, damage to or inaccessibility of critical systems, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, and technology, were approximately $1.8 billion at september 30, 2016 , representing approximately 16% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $5.7 billion at september 30, 2016 , representing approximately 53% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. the company may be subject to risks relating to changes in its tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. the company is subject to income taxes in the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions. the company's domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. the company's future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the company's effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, challenges by tax authorities or changes in tax laws or regulations. in addition, the amount of income taxes paid by the company is subject to ongoing audits by u.s. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-u.s. tax authorities. if these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the company's tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins, or unrelated to our operating performance, including market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies more specifically. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders' ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. 12 table of contents we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not regularly declare and pay quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. on july 3, 2013, june 4, 2014 and october 14, 2016, the company's board of directors authorized and declared special cash dividends of $22.00, $25.00 and $24.00, respectively, on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments to holders of options under its stock option plans. notwithstanding the special cash dividends declared in july 2013, june 2014 and october 2016, we do not anticipate declaring regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay future special cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of special cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, shareholders should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2016 , we had borrowings under our term loans of approximately $5,235 million that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our term loans bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libor for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company's cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our term loans. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our term loans by approximately $52 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2016 . the weighted average interest rate on the $5,235 million of borrowings under our term loans on september 30, 2016 was 4.2%. interest rate swaps and caps used to hedge and offset, respectively, the variable interest rates on the credit facility are described in note 20, derivatives and hedging activities to our consolidated financial statements included herein. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes. for information about the fair value of the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our term loans and the fair value of the notes, see note 19, fair value measurements to our consolidated financial statements included herein.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our commercial business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers' planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers' profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic and geopolitical and other worldwide conditions. our commercial business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet, the percentage of the fleet that is out-of-warranty and changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) epidemic, and the conflicts abroad, and could be impacted by future geopolitical or other worldwide events, such as war, terrorist acts, or a worldwide infectious disease outbreak. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories, and delay refurbishments and discretionary spending. if demand for spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. an adverse change in demand could impact our results of operations, collection of accounts receivable and our expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses which may adversely impact our financial condition and access to capital markets. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets (which collectively accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal year 2017 ) have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, interest rates, downturns in the global economy and national and international events. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. downturns adversely affect our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our two largest customers for fiscal year 2017 were airbus s.a.s. (which includes satair a/s) and the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc.). airbus s.a.s. accounted for approximately13% of our net sales and the boeing company accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales in fiscal year 2017 . our top ten customers for fiscal year 2017 accounted for approximately 46% of our net sales. a material reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, including but not limited to economic downturn, decreased production, strike or resourcing, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. 6 table of contents we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government's budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence internationally and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms or may be unable to receive necessary regulatory approvals or support. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including regulatory complications or difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could result in margin dilution and further likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts based on alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. 7 table of contents most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. furthermore, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable. our subsidiaries are periodically subject to a pricing review and in fact, government buying agencies that purchase some of our subsidiaries' products are currently the subject of a dod office of inspector general audit with respect to prices paid for such products. pricing reviews and government audits, including the one underway, could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. moreover, u.s. government purchasing regulations contain a number of additional operation requirements, which do not apply to entities not engaged in government contracting. failure to comply with such government contracting requirements could result in civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. failure to obtain approval to export or determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2017 , our total indebtedness, excluding approximately $16 million of letters of credit outstanding, was approximately $11.8 billion , which was 133.5% of our total book capitalization as a result of our dividends being funded, in part, with indebtedness and the addition of approximately $1.6 billion in net new incremental borrowings during fiscal 2017 . in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2017 , we had approximately $584 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the various senior subordinated notes outstanding (the indentures ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. for example, if the usage of the revolving loan facility exceeds 25% of the total revolving commitments, the company will be required to maintain a maximum consolidated net leverage ratio of net debt, as defined, to trailing four-quarter ebitda as defined. a breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. our substantial debt could also have other important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; increase the risk we are subjected to downgrade or put on a negative watch by the ratings agencies; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; 8 table of contents limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes $7.0 billion in term loans and a revolving loan facility of $600 million, bears interest at floating rates. accordingly, if interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. interest rate swap and cap agreements are used to manage interest rate risk associated with floating-rate borrowings under our credit facilities. for information about our interest rate swap and cap agreements, see note 20, derivatives and hedging instruments, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the indentures. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the indentures, amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts due under our securitization facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule, or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts borrowed under our securitization facility and the indentures, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the securitization facility, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the indentures. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; 9 table of contents engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company's prior experience and professional judgment of the company's environmental advisors. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company's accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. we are dependent on our senior management team and highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. in addition, our success depends in part on our ability to attract and motivate our senior management and key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult due to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be intense. a loss of senior management and key personnel, or failure to attract qualified new talent could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results and/or market value could be adversely affected. the board continually monitors this risk and we believe that the board's succession plan, together with our straightforward strategy, clear value drivers, decentralized nature and the quality of managers running our operating units helps to mitigate this risk. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers' facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers' employees or the failure 10 table of contents of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. our operations depend on our manufacturing facilities, which are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. in addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are located along the eastern seaboard area susceptible to hurricanes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. disruptions could also occur due to cyber-attacks, computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error or process failures. any disruption of our ability to operate our business could result in a material decrease in our revenues or significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. operations and sales outside of the united states may be subject to additional risks. a number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. furthermore, the company is subject to laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, uk bribery act and similar local anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, agents and contractors from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject the company to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect the company's results of operations. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future product liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. we could incur substantial costs as a result of data protection concerns. the interpretation and application of data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. compliance could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, despite our efforts to protect confidential information, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to data loss, including cyber-attacks. this could lead to negative publicity, legal claims, theft, modification or destruction of proprietary or key information, damage to or inaccessibility of critical systems, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 11 table of contents we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, and technology, were approximately $1.7 billion at september 30, 2017 , representing approximately 17% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $5.7 billion at september 30, 2017 , representing approximately 58% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. the company may be subject to risks relating to changes in its tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. the company is subject to income taxes in the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions. the company's domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. the company's future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the company's effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, challenges by tax authorities or changes in tax laws or regulations. in addition, the amount of income taxes paid by the company is subject to ongoing audits by u.s. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-u.s. tax authorities. if these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the company's tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the operating performance of the companies issuing the securities. these market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. such changes could be caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins. or such changes could be unrelated to our operating performance, such as changes in market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies or changes in the outlook for our common stock, such as changes to or the confidence in our business strategy, changes to or confidence in our management, or expectations for future growth of the company. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders' ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. 12 table of contents we do not regularly declare and pay quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. on july 3, 2013, june 4, 2014, october 14, 2016 and august 23, 2017, the company's board of directors authorized and declared special cash dividends of $22.00, $25.00, $24.00 and $22.00, respectively, on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments to holders of options under its stock option plans. notwithstanding the special cash dividends, we do not anticipate declaring regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay future special cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of special cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, shareholders should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. 13 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2017 , we had borrowings under our term loans of approximately $6,973 million that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our term loans bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libor for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company's cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our term loans. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our term loans by approximately $67 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2017 . the weighted average interest rate on the $6,973 million of borrowings under our term loans on september 30, 2017 was 4.5%. interest rate swaps and caps used to hedge and offset, respectively, the variable interest rates on the credit facility are described in note 20, derivatives and hedging activities, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes. for information about the fair value of the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our term loans and the fair value of the notes, see note 19, fair value measurements, to our consolidated financial statements included herein.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our commercial business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers' planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers' profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic and geopolitical and other worldwide conditions. our commercial business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet, the percentage of the fleet that is out-of-warranty and changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) epidemic, and the conflicts abroad, and could be impacted by future geopolitical or other worldwide events, such as war, terrorist acts, or a worldwide infectious disease outbreak. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories, and delay refurbishments and discretionary spending. if demand for spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. an adverse change in demand could impact our results of operations, collection of accounts receivable and our 6 table of contents expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses which may adversely impact our financial condition and access to capital markets. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets (which collectively accounted for approximately 24% of our net sales in fiscal year 2018 ) have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, interest rates, downturns in the global economy and national and international events. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. downturns adversely affect our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our two largest customers for fiscal year 2018 were airbus s.a.s. (which includes satair a/s) and the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc.). airbus s.a.s. accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales and the boeing company accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in fiscal year 2018 . our top ten customers for fiscal year 2018 accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales. a material reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, including but not limited to economic downturn, decreased production, strike or resourcing, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government's budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence internationally and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms or may be unable to receive necessary regulatory approvals or support. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including regulatory complications or difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could result in margin dilution and further likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and 7 table of contents amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. we are subject to many of the foregoing risks in connection with our recently announced agreement to acquire esterline, and these risks may be exacerbated due to the scale and complexity of that acquisition as compared to our recent acquisitions. the acquisition is not expected to close until 2019, subject to approval of esterline's shareholders, as well as other customary closing conditions, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals, so there can be no assurance that we will not encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays in the process or that we will be able to consummate the acquisition as contemplated or at all. if the acquisition is completed, it will require extensive integration efforts. these efforts could result in significant unforeseen costs and will require substantial attention from our senior management. if we are unable to successfully integrate esterline or the acquisition otherwise does not perform to our expectations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. it is also possible that the substantial management attention required by, and the indebtedness to be incurred in connection with, the transaction could cause us to forgo other acquisition opportunities, particularly if we encounter delays or unexpected costs or the acquisition otherwise does not perform to our expectations. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts based on alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government for its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. furthermore, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable. our subsidiaries are periodically subject to a pricing review and in fact, government buying agencies that purchase some of our subsidiaries' products are currently the subject of a dod office of inspector general audit with respect to prices paid for such products. pricing reviews and government audits, including the one underway, could be costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of such a review, we could be subject to providing a refund to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost or the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. moreover, u.s. government purchasing regulations contain a number of additional operational requirements, which do not apply to entities not engaged in government contracting. failure to comply with such government contracting requirements could result in civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we 8 table of contents might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. failure to obtain approval to export or determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2018 , our total indebtedness, excluding approximately $17.5 million of letters of credit outstanding, was approximately $12.9 billion , which was 116.3% of our total book capitalization as a result of our prior year special dividends being funded, in part, with indebtedness and the addition of approximately $1.1 billion in net new incremental borrowings during fiscal 2018 . also, in connection with the merger agreement to acquire esterline for approximately $4 billion, the company entered into a commitment letter for a senior secured term facility up to $3.7 billion. the actual amount and timing of the new senior secured term facility is subject to the closing of the esterline acquisition and the cash on hand at that time. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, as of september 30, 2018 , we had approximately $582.5 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the various senior subordinated notes outstanding (the indentures ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. for example, if the usage of the revolving loan facility exceeds 25% of the total revolving commitments, the company will be required to maintain a maximum consolidated net leverage ratio of net debt, as defined, to trailing four-quarter ebitda as defined. a breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. an increase in our substantial indebtedness could also have other important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; increase the risk we are subjected to downgrade or put on a negative watch by the ratings agencies; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. in addition, all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes $7.6 billion in term loans and a revolving loan facility of $600 million , bears interest at variable rates. accordingly, if interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. interest rate swap and cap agreements are used to manage interest rate risk associated with variable rate borrowings under our credit facilities. for information about our interest rate swap and cap agreements, see note 20, derivatives and hedging instruments, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the indentures. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the indentures, amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts due under our securitization facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability 9 table of contents to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule, or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts borrowed under our securitization facility and the indentures, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the securitization facility, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the indentures. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. 10 table of contents estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company's prior experience and professional judgment of the company's environmental advisors. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company's accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. we are dependent on our senior management team and highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. in addition, our success depends in part on our ability to attract and motivate our senior management and key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult due to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be intense. a loss of senior management and key personnel, or failure to attract qualified new talent could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results and/or market value could be adversely affected. the board continually monitors this risk and we believe that the board's succession plan, together with our straightforward strategy, clear value drivers, decentralized nature and the quality of managers running our operating units helps to mitigate this risk. we may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including fair labor standards act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions brought or threatened against us in the ordinary course of business. these actions and proceedings may involve claims for, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, or breach of contract. in addition, we may be subject to class action lawsuits, including those involving allegations of violations of consumer product statutes or the fair labor standards act and state wage and hour laws. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such actions or proceedings. the outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify, as plaintiffs may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts in these types of lawsuits, and the magnitude of the potential loss may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. in addition, plaintiffs in many types of actions may seek punitive damages, civil penalties, consequential damages or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. these proceedings could result in substantial cost and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. the ultimate resolution of these matters through settlement, mediation, or court judgment could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers' facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers' employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. 11 table of contents our operations depend on our manufacturing facilities, which are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes, and are thus vulnerable to damage. in addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are located along the eastern seaboard area susceptible to hurricanes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. disruptions could also occur due to cyber-attacks, computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error or process failures. any disruption of our ability to operate our business could result in a material decrease in our revenues or significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. operations and sales outside of the united states may be subject to additional risks. a number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. furthermore, the company is subject to laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, uk bribery act and similar local anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, agents and contractors from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject the company to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect the company's results of operations. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future product liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. we could incur substantial costs as a result of data protection concerns. the interpretation and application of data protection laws in the u.s., europe, including but not limited to the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. complying with these various laws is difficult and could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. further, although we are implementing internal controls and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the gdpr and other privacy-related laws, rules and regulations (collectively, the data protection laws ), there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will enable us to be fully compliant with all data protection laws. despite our efforts to protect sensitive information and confidential and personal data, comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations and implement data security measures, our facilities, and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches and other data loss, including cyber-attacks and, in fact, we have experienced data security incidents that have not had a material impact on our financial results. in addition, it is not possible to predict the impact on our business of the future loss, alteration or misappropriation of information in our possession related to us, our employees, former employees, customers, suppliers or others. this could lead to negative publicity, legal claims, theft, modification or destruction of proprietary information or key information, damage to or inaccessibility of critical systems, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, and technology, were approximately $1.8 billion at september 30, 2018 , representing approximately 15% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $6.2 billion at september 30, 2018 , representing approximately 51% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. the company may be subject to risks relating to changes in its tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. the company is subject to income taxes in the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions. the company's domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. the company's future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the company's effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, challenges by tax authorities or changes in tax laws or regulations. in addition, the amount of income taxes paid by the company is subject to ongoing audits by u.s. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-u.s. tax authorities. if these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the company's tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the operating performance of the companies issuing the securities. these market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. such changes could be caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins. or such changes could be unrelated to our operating performance, such as changes in market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies or changes in the outlook for our common stock, such as changes to or the confidence in our business strategy, changes to or confidence in our management, or expectations for future growth of the company. future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders' ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. 13 table of contents we do not regularly declare and pay quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. on july 3, 2013, june 4, 2014, october 14, 2016 and august 23, 2017, the company's board of directors authorized and declared special cash dividends of $22.00, $25.00, $24.00 and $22.00, respectively, on each outstanding share of common stock and cash dividend equivalent payments to holders of options under its stock option plans. notwithstanding the special cash dividends, we do not anticipate declaring regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay future special cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of special cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, shareholders should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2018 , we had borrowings under our term loans of approximately $7,600 million that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our term loans bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libor for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company's cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our term loans. the company's objective is to maintain an allocation of approximately 75% fixed rate and 25% variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our term loans by approximately $76 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2018 . the weighted average interest rate on the $7,600 million of borrowings under our term loans on september 30, 2018 was 4.5%. interest rate swaps and caps used to hedge and offset, respectively, the variable interest rates on the credit facility are described in note 20, derivatives and hedging activities, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes. for information about the fair value of the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our term loans and the fair value of the notes, see note 19, fair value measurements, to our consolidated financial statements included herein.risk factors set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. our commercial business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers' planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers' profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic and geopolitical and other worldwide conditions. our commercial business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles (rpms), the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet, the percentage of the fleet that is out-of-warranty and changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in the past, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) epidemic, and the conflicts abroad, and could be impacted by future geopolitical or other worldwide events, such as war, terrorist acts, or a worldwide infectious disease outbreak. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging with turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories, and delay refurbishments and discretionary spending. if demand for spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. an adverse change in demand could impact our results of operations, collection of accounts receivable and our 6 table of contents expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses which may adversely impact our financial condition and access to capital markets. our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets (which collectively accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales in fiscal year 2019 ) have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, interest rates, downturns in the global economy and national and international events. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. downturns adversely affect our net sales, gross margin and net income. we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. our largest customer for fiscal year 2019 was the boeing company (which includes aviall, inc.). the boeing company accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales in fiscal year 2019 . our top ten customers for fiscal year 2019 accounted for approximately 42% of our net sales. a material reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, including but not limited to economic downturn, decreased production, strike or resourcing, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, gross margin and net income. in 2019, the boeing company announced a production rate decrease on the boeing 737 max from 52 to 42 airplanes per month. the company does not anticipate the current production rate decrease to have a material impact on the company's financial results. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the u.s. department of defense (the dod ) budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the united states government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy by the current presidential administration, the u.s. government's budget deficits, spending priorities, the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence internationally and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. we intend to pursue acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms or may be unable to receive necessary regulatory approvals or support. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including regulatory complications or difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could result in margin dilution and further likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization 7 table of contents expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. we are subject to many of the foregoing risks in connection with our acquisition of esterline completed in march 2019, and these risks may be exacerbated due to the scale and complexity of that acquisition as compared to our recent acquisitions. the acquisition has required and will continue to require extensive integration efforts. these efforts could result in significant unforeseen costs and require substantial attention from our senior management. if we are unable to successfully integrate esterline or the acquisition otherwise does not perform to our expectations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. it is also possible that the substantial management attention required by, and the indebtedness incurred in connection with the transaction could cause us to forgo other acquisition opportunities, particularly if we encounter unexpected costs or the acquisition otherwise does not perform to our expectations. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies, whether through direct contracts with the u.s. government or a as a subcontractor to customers contracting with the u.s. government, are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts based on alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; revoke required security clearances; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government at its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. furthermore, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable. our subsidiaries are periodically subject to pricing reviews and government buying agencies that purchase some of our subsidiaries' products are periodically subject to audits by the dod office of inspector general ( oig ) with respect to prices paid for such products. in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we voluntarily refunded $16 million to the u.s. government following an oig audit, and another oig audit is underway. in addition, our defense-related business is the subject of an ongoing congressional inquiry by the house oversight committee. pricing reviews and government audits, including the audit underway, and the congressional inquiry are costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of these reviews, audits and inquiries, we could be subject to providing further refunds to the u.s. government or we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost, the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts, or the u.s. government could take other adverse actions with respect to our contracts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. if a government inquiry or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including contract termination, fines, forfeiture of fees, suspension of payment and suspension or debarment from doing business with u.s. government agencies, any of which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, u.s. government purchasing regulations contain a number of additional operational requirements, which do not apply to entities not engaged in government contracting. failure to comply with such government contracting requirements could result in civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. 8 table of contents our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the united states and in other countries. in order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us include the arms export control act, the international traffic in arms regulations ("itar"), the export administration regulations ("ear") and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). ear restricts the export of dual-use products and technical data to certain countries, while itar restricts the export of defense products, technical data and defense services. failure to obtain approval to export or determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2019 , our total indebtedness, excluding approximately $41.5 million of letters of credit outstanding, was approximately $16.9 billion , which was 120.7% of our total book capitalization as a result of special dividends being funded, in part, with indebtedness and the addition of approximately $4.0 billion in net new incremental borrowings during fiscal 2019 in connection with the financing of the esterline acquisition. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. for example, on october 29, 2019, the company entered into a purchase agreement in connection with a private offering of $2.65 billion aggregate principal amount in 5.50% senior subordinated notes due november 15, 2027. the settlement of the debt financing transaction occurred on november 13, 2019. the notes were issued at a price of 100% of their principal amount. the company will use a portion of the net proceeds from the offering of the notes to redeem all of its outstanding (aggregate principal amount of $1.15 billion) 6.000% senior subordinated notes due 2022. also, as of september 30, 2019 , we had approximately $718.5 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the various senior subordinated notes outstanding (the indentures ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. for example, if the usage of the revolving loan facility exceeds 35% of the total revolving commitments, the company will be required to maintain a maximum consolidated net leverage ratio of net debt, as defined, to trailing four-quarter ebitda as defined. a breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. an increase in our substantial indebtedness could also have other important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; increase the risk we are subjected to downgrade or put on a negative watch by the ratings agencies; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes $7.5 billion in term loans and a revolving loan facility of $760 million , bears interest at variable rates primarily based on the london interbank offered rate (libor) for deposits of u.s. dollars. accordingly, if libor or other variable interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. interest rate swap and cap agreements are used to manage interest rate risk associated with variable rate borrowings under our credit facilities. for information about our interest rate swap and cap agreements, see note 21, derivatives and hedging instruments, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. 9 table of contents in addition, on july 27, 2017, the financial conduct authority (fca) in the u.k. announced that it would phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of calendar year 2021. the expected discontinuation of libor may require us to amend certain agreements governing our debt and, although the u.s. and other jurisdictions are working to replace libor with alternative reference rates, we cannot predict what alternative index, margin adjustments and related terms would be negotiated with our counterparties. as a result, our interest expense could increase. our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the indentures. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the indentures, amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts due under our securitization facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule, or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts borrowed under our securitization facility and the indentures, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the securitization facility, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the indentures. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. 10 table of contents a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company's prior experience and professional judgment of the company's environmental advisors. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigation and remediation proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company's accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. we are dependent on our senior management team and highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. there is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. in addition, our success depends in part on our ability to attract and motivate our senior management and key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult due to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be intense. a loss of senior management and key personnel, or failure to attract qualified new talent could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results and/or market value could be adversely affected. the board continually monitors this risk and we believe that the board's succession plan, together with our straightforward strategy, clear value drivers, decentralized nature and the quality of managers running our operating units helps to mitigate this risk. we may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including fair labor standards act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions brought or threatened against us in the ordinary course of business. these actions and proceedings may involve claims for, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, or breach of contract. in addition, we may be subject to class action lawsuits, including those involving allegations of violations of consumer product statutes or the fair labor standards act and state wage and hour laws. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such actions or proceedings. the outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify, as plaintiffs may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts in these types of lawsuits, and the magnitude of the potential 11 table of contents loss may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. in addition, plaintiffs in many types of actions may seek punitive damages, civil penalties, consequential damages or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. these proceedings could result in substantial cost and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. the ultimate resolution of these matters through settlement, mediation, or court judgment could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers' facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers' employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. our operations depend on our manufacturing facilities, which are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes and fires, and are thus vulnerable to damage. in addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are located along the eastern seaboard area susceptible to hurricanes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. disruptions could also occur due to cyber-attacks, computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error or process failures. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms, such as our existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans, be insufficient to recover all costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. operations and sales outside of the united states may be subject to additional risks. a number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. furthermore, the company is subject to laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, uk bribery act and similar local anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, agents and contractors from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject the company to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect the company's results of operations. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. we could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future product liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our components could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. if a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. 12 table of contents we could incur substantial costs as a result of data protection concerns. the interpretation and application of data protection laws in the u.s., europe, including but not limited to the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ) and the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa ), and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. complying with these various laws is difficult and could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. further, although we have implemented internal controls and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the gdpr, ccpa and other privacy-related laws, rules and regulations (collectively, the data protection laws ), there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will enable us to be fully compliant with all data protection laws. despite our efforts to protect sensitive information and confidential and personal data, comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations and implement data security measures, our facilities, and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches and other data loss, including cyber-attacks and, in fact, we have experienced data security incidents that have not had a material impact on our financial results. in addition, it is not possible to predict the impact on our business of the future loss, alteration or misappropriation of information in our possession related to us, our employees, former employees, customers, suppliers or others. this could lead to negative publicity, legal claims, theft, modification or destruction of proprietary information or key information, damage to or inaccessibility of critical systems, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, and technology, were approximately $2.7 billion at september 30, 2019 , representing approximately 17% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $7.8 billion at september 30, 2019 , representing approximately 48% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and required pension contributions. the company sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans and a nonqualified postretirement plan. certain qualified defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities and other investments. among other factors, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future contribution requirements. a significant decrease in investment returns or the market value of plan assets or a significant decrease in interest rates could increase our net periodic pension costs and adversely affect our results of operations. a significant increase in our contribution requirements with respect to our qualified defined benefit pension plans could have an adverse impact on our cash flow. we may be subject to risks relating to changes in its tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions. the company's domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. the company's future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the company's effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, challenges by tax authorities or changes in tax laws or regulations. in addition, the amount of income taxes paid by the company is subject to ongoing audits by u.s. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-u.s. tax authorities. if these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the company's tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the operating performance of the companies issuing the securities. these market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. such changes could be caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins. or such changes could be unrelated to our operating performance, such as changes in market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies or changes in the outlook for our common stock, such as changes to or the confidence in our business strategy, changes to or confidence in our management, or expectations for future growth of the company. 13 table of contents future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. our corporate documents and delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. for example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. without stockholder approval, the board of directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. with these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders' ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our board of directors. we are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of section 203 of the delaware general corporation law. under these provisions, if anyone becomes an interested stockholder, we may not enter into a business combination with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. for purposes of section 203, interested stockholder means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in section 203. we do not regularly declare and pay quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. notwithstanding special cash dividends, of which the most recent declaration by the company's board of directors occurred on august 6, 2019 in the amount of $30.00 per outstanding share of common stock and and cash dividend equivalent payments on options granted under its stock incentive plans, we do not anticipate declaring regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay future special cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of special cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, shareholders should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate and floating-rate long-term debt. at september 30, 2019 , we had borrowings under our term loans of approximately $7,524 million that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our term loans bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libor for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company's cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our term loans. the company's objective is to maintain an allocation of at least 75% fixed rate and 25% variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. as of september 30, 2019, approximately 83% of our debt was fixed rate debt. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our term loans by approximately $75 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2019 . the weighted average interest rate on the $7,524 million of borrowings under our term loans on september 30, 2019 was 4.8%. interest rate swaps and caps used to hedge and offset, respectively, the variable interest rates on the credit facility are described in note 21, derivatives and hedging activities, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes. for information about the fair value of the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our term loans and the fair value of the notes, see note 20, fair value measurements, to our consolidated financial statements included herein. foreign currency risk certain of our foreign subsidiaries' sales and results of operations are subject to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which we transact business could materially adversely affect our net sales, net income and the carrying values of our assets located outside the u.s. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen, our foreign results of operations would be unfavorably impacted, but the effect is not expected to be material. a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have resulted in a material impact to net income for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2019 and 2018.risk factors set forth below are material risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. risks related to our strategy we rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. in fiscal year 2020, no customer individually accounted for 10% or more of the company's net sales; however, our top ten customers for fiscal year 2020 accounted for approximately 44% of our net sales. in fiscal year 2019, one customer individually accounted for approximately 11% of the company's net sales. in fiscal year 2018, two customers individually accounted for approximately 11% and 10% of the company's net sales. a material reduction in purchasing by one of our larger customers for any reason, including but not limited to economic downturn, decreased production, strike or resourcing, could have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. as is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. although we have long-term contracts with many of our oem customers, many of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in most cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. in addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. we also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs of making these products. sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and this increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. most of our contracts do not permit us to recover increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. we intend to pursue acquisitions. our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. a significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. we intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. however, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms or may be unable to receive necessary regulatory approvals or support. in addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including regulatory complications or difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. we regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. future acquisitions could result in margin dilution and further likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. in addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. the successful integration of new businesses, with the most significant recent acquisition being the esterline acquisition in march 2019, depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. the successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service, attract customers and develop new products and services or attend to other acquisition opportunities. 9 table of contents our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and could harm our ability to react to changes to our business and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of september 30, 2020, our total indebtedness, excluding approximately $39.4 million of letters of credit outstanding, was approximately $20.0 billion, which was 124.8% of our total book capitalization. we incurred approximately $3.1 billion in net new incremental borrowings during fiscal 2020 both for general corporate purposes and as a precautionary response to macroeconomic conditions caused by the covid-19 pandemic. in addition, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. as of september 30, 2020, we had approximately $520.6 million of unused commitments under our revolving loan facility. although our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the various senior secured and senior subordinated notes outstanding (the indentures ) contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these qualifications and exceptions could be substantial. a breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. an increase in our indebtedness could also have other important consequences to investors. for example, it could: increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; increase the risk we are subjected to downgrade or put on a negative watch by the ratings agencies; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments and incur liens. all of our debt under the senior secured credit facility, which includes $7.4 billion in term loans and a revolving loan facility of $760 million, bears interest at variable rates primarily based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) for deposits of u.s. dollars. accordingly, if libor or other variable interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. in order to mitigate the interest rate risk of these variable rate borrowings, we are entered into interest rate swap and cap agreements that covers a significant portion of the existing variable rate debt. for information about our interest rate swap and cap agreements, see note 21, derivatives and hedging instruments, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. in addition, on july 27, 2017, the financial conduct authority ( fca ) in the united kingdom ( u.k. ) announced that it would phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of calendar year 2021. as a result, in february 2020, we amended our senior secured credit facility to incorporate an alternative reference rate effective upon the cessation date of libor. we will also take the necessary steps to amend our interest rate swap and cap agreements. the expected cessation of libor may require us to amend certain other agreements and although the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ) is expected to be the alternative rate that replaces libor, we cannot predict what margin adjustments and related terms would be negotiated with our counterparties. as a result, our interest expense could increase. our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness, including the indentures. we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the indentures, amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts due under our trade receivable securitization facility ( securitization facility ), and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 10 table of contents we cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule, or at all, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the senior secured credit facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the senior secured credit facility, amounts borrowed under our securitization facility and the indentures, or to fund our other liquidity needs. if we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. we cannot assure that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. the terms of existing or future debt instruments, the securitization facility, the indentures and the senior secured credit facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. in addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the indentures. the terms of the senior secured credit facility and indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. our senior secured credit facility and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. the senior secured credit facility and indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of td group, transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the senior secured credit facility) and transdigm inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the indentures) to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; make investments; sell assets; enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; incur or allow to exist liens; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; create unrestricted subsidiaries; and engage in certain business activities. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the indentures. if any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the senior secured and senior subordinated notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. the lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. in addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the senior subordinated notes. if the debt under the senior secured credit facility or the senior secured or subordinated notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our debt. we are dependent on our senior management team and highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. historically, there has been substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aerospace and defense industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. reduction in force actions, such as the actions taken to reduce our workforce to align operations with customer demand as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, could result in difficulty in rehiring capable employees to refill the positions eliminated as needed once business recovers. 11 table of contents although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. because we strive to limit the volume of finished goods inventory, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. in addition, our success depends in part on our ability to attract and motivate our senior management and key employees. achieving this objective may be difficult due to a variety of factors, including fluctuations in economic and industry conditions, competitors' hiring practices, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs. competition for qualified personnel can be intense. a loss of senior management and key personnel, or failure to attract qualified new talent could prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities, and our operating results and/or market value could be adversely affected. the company's board of directors continually monitors this risk and we believe that the board of director's succession plan, together with our straightforward strategy, clear value drivers, decentralized nature and the quality of managers running our operating units helps to mitigate this risk. risks related to our operations our sales to manufacturers of aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, such as the boeing company, airbus s.a.s, and related oem suppliers, as well as manufacturers of business jets have historically experienced periodic downturns. in the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, interest rates, downturns in the global economy and national and international events. in addition, sales of our products to manufacturers of business jets are impacted by, among other things, downturns in the global economy. in particular, commercial and business jet market channel sales have been negatively impacted by the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. downturns adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials from suppliers. our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers' facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers' employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. the covid-19 pandemic has also disrupted the global supply chain to a certain extent. because we strive to limit the volume of raw materials and component parts on hand, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive faa and oem certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. we face significant competition. we operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies. competitors in our product lines are both u.s. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately-held entities. we believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. we may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. our operations depend on our manufacturing facilities, which are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. a number of our manufacturing facilities are located in the greater los angeles area, an area known for earthquakes and fires, and are thus vulnerable to damage. in addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are located along the eastern seaboard area susceptible to hurricanes. we are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, fire, explosions, floods, communications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. disruptions could also occur due to health-related outbreaks and crises, cyber-attacks, computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error or process failures. should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms, such as our existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans, be insufficient to recover all costs, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 12 table of contents operations and sales outside of the united states may be subject to additional risks. a number of risks inherent in international operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including global health crises, currency fluctuations, difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations, general economic and political uncertainties and potential for social unrest in countries in which we operate, limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, change in trade policies, tariff regulation, difficulties in obtaining export and import licenses and the risk of government financed competition. issues with the global supply chain can also rise due to some of the aforementioned risks as well as global health crises, such as the covid-19 pandemic. furthermore, the company is subject to laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, uk bribery act and similar local anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their employees, agents and contractors from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. failure to comply with these laws could subject the company to civil and criminal penalties that could materially adversely affect the company's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. in june 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union ( e.u. ) commonly referred to as brexit. the u.k. subsequently withdrew from the european union on january 31, 2020, subject to a transition period that is set to end on december 31, 2020. although it is unknown what the terms of the u.k.'s relationship with the e.u. will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the u.k. and e.u. countries and increased regulatory complexities. these changes could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business and the business of existing and future customers and suppliers as well as have an impact on our employees based in europe, which could adversely impact our business. the actual effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to e.u. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. we are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the u.s. government. companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to u.s. government agencies, whether through direct contracts with the u.s. government or a as a subcontractor to customers contracting with the u.s. government, are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. these risks include the ability of the u.s. government to unilaterally: suspend us from receiving new contracts based on alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; terminate existing contracts; revoke required security clearances; reduce the value of existing contracts; and audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. most of our u.s. government contracts can be terminated by the u.s. government at its convenience without significant notice. termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. on contracts for which the price is based on cost, the u.s. government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. based on the results of such audits, the u.s. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. in addition, under u.s. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. 13 table of contents furthermore, even where the price is not based on cost, the u.s. government may seek to review our costs to determine whether our pricing is fair and reasonable. our subsidiaries are periodically subject to pricing reviews and government buying agencies that purchase some of our subsidiaries' products are periodically subject to audits by the dod office of inspector general ( oig ) with respect to prices paid for such products. in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we voluntarily refunded $16 million to the u.s. government following an oig audit, and another oig audit is underway. in addition, our defense-related business is the subject of an ongoing congressional inquiry by the house oversight committee. pricing reviews and government audits, including the audit underway, and the congressional inquiry are costly and time consuming for our management and could distract from our ability to effectively manage the business. as a result of these reviews, audits and inquiries, we could be subject to providing further refunds to the u.s. government, we could be asked to enter into an arrangement whereby our prices would be based on cost, the dod could seek to pursue alternative sources of supply for our parts, or the u.s. government could take other adverse actions with respect to our contracts. any of those occurrences could lead to a reduction in our revenue from, or the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. further, negative publicity relating to the results of any audit, inquiry or subsequent hearing or the like could negatively impact our stock price. if a government inquiry or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including contract termination, fines, forfeiture of fees, suspension of payment and suspension or debarment from doing business with u.s. government agencies, any of which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. moreover, u.s. government purchasing regulations contain a number of additional operational requirements, which do not apply to entities not engaged in government contracting. failure to comply with such government contracting requirements could result in civil and criminal penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. the aerospace industry is highly regulated in the u.s. and in other countries. in order to sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must be certified by the faa, the dod and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. if new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. in addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. in addition to the aviation approvals, we are at times required to obtain approval from u.s. government agencies to export our products. u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us include the arms export control act, the international traffic in arms regulations ("itar"), the export administration regulations ("ear") and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the united states department of the treasury's office of foreign assets control ("ofac"). ear restricts the export of dual-use products and technical data to certain countries, while itar restricts the export of defense products, technical data and defense services. failure to obtain approval to export or determination by the u.s. government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the united states, and the penalties that could be imposed by the u.s. government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. we could incur substantial costs as a result of data protection concerns. the interpretation and application of data protection laws in the u.s., europe, including but not limited to the general data protection regulation (the gdpr ) and the california consumer privacy act (the ccpa ), and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. complying with these various laws is difficult and could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. further, although we have implemented internal controls and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the gdpr, ccpa and other privacy-related laws, rules and regulations (collectively, the data protection laws ), there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will enable us to be fully compliant with all data protection laws. 14 table of contents despite our efforts to protect sensitive information and confidential and personal data, comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations and implement data security measures, our facilities, and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches and other data loss, including cyber-attacks and, in fact, we have experienced data security incidents that have not had a material impact on our financial results. in addition, it is not possible to predict the impact on our business of the future loss, alteration or misappropriation of information in our possession related to us, our employees, former employees, customers, suppliers or others. this could lead to negative publicity, legal claims, theft, modification or destruction of proprietary information or key information, damage to or inaccessibility of critical systems, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. risks related to legal and regulatory matters we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the generation, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination and the health and safety of our employees. environmental laws and regulations may require that the company investigate and remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present operations. certain facilities and third-party sites utilized by subsidiaries of the company have been identified as potentially responsible parties under the federal superfund laws and comparable state laws. the company is currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a number of sites under applicable laws. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are based on current facts, laws, regulations and technology. these estimates take into consideration the company's prior experience and professional judgment of the company's environmental advisors. estimates of the company's environmental liabilities are further subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available, evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering evaluations and cost estimates, the extent of corrective actions that may be required and the number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their responsibility for the remediation. accordingly, as investigations and remediations proceed, it is likely that adjustments in the company's accruals will be necessary to reflect new information. the amounts of any such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations or cash flows in a given period. based on currently available information, however, the company does not believe that future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with respect to sites for which the company has been identified as a potentially responsible party are likely to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition. we may be subject to periodic litigation and regulatory proceedings, including fair labor standards act and state wage and hour class action lawsuits, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. from time to time, we are involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions brought or threatened against us in the ordinary course of business. these actions and proceedings may involve claims for, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, or breach of contract. in addition, we may be subject to class action lawsuits, including those involving allegations of violations of consumer product statutes or the fair labor standards act and state wage and hour laws. due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such actions or proceedings. the outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify, as plaintiffs may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts in these types of lawsuits, and the magnitude of the potential loss may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. in addition, plaintiffs in many types of actions may seek punitive damages, civil penalties, consequential damages or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. these proceedings could result in substantial cost and may require us to devote substantial resources to defend ourselves. the ultimate resolution of these matters through settlement, mediation, or court judgment could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we could be adversely affected if one of our products cause an aircraft to crash. our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft product that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. while we maintain liability insurance to protect us from future product liability claims, in the event of product liability claims our insurers may attempt to deny coverage or any coverage we have may not be adequate. we also may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. any liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. in addition, a crash caused by one of our products could damage our reputation for quality products. we believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft products. if a crash were to be caused by one of our products, or if we were to otherwise fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. 15 table of contents risks related to financial matters we have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. mergers and acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, customer relationships, and technology, were approximately $2.6 billion at september 30, 2020, representing approximately 14% of our total assets. goodwill recognized in accounting for the mergers and acquisitions was approximately $7.9 billion at september 30, 2020, representing approximately 43% of our total assets. we may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets or our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting standards, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and required pension contributions. the company sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans. certain qualified defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities and other investments. among other factors, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future contribution requirements. a significant decrease in investment returns or the market value of plan assets or a significant decrease in interest rates could increase our net periodic pension costs and adversely affect our results of operations. a significant increase in our contribution requirements with respect to our qualified defined benefit pension plans could have an adverse impact on our cash flows. we may be subject to risks relating to changes in its tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and various non-u.s. jurisdictions. the company's domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. the company's future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the company's effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, challenges by tax authorities or changes in tax laws or regulations. in addition, the amount of income taxes paid by the company is subject to ongoing audits by u.s. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-u.s. tax authorities. if these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to the company's tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. we do not regularly declare and pay quarterly or annual cash dividends on our stock. notwithstanding special cash dividends, of which the most recent declaration by the company's board of directors occurred on december 20, 2019 in the amount of $32.50 per outstanding share of common stock and and cash dividend equivalent payments on options granted under its equity compensation plans, we do not anticipate declaring regular quarterly or annual cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. the amounts that may be available to us to pay future special cash dividends are restricted under our debt and other agreements. any payment of special cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. therefore, shareholders should not rely on regular quarterly or annual dividend income from shares of our common stock and should not rely on special dividends with any regularity or at all. general risks we face risks related to the current covid-19 pandemic and other health pandemics, epidemics and outbreaks . the global outbreak of covid-19 is currently impacting countries, communities, supply chains, and markets. the covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our commercial oem and commercial aftermarket sales and will continue to do so for an indeterminate length of time. the impact of the covid-19 pandemic is fluid and continues to evolve, and therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows will ultimately be impacted. because this situation is ongoing and because the duration and severity of the outbreak are unclear, it is difficult to forecast the impact on the company's future results. however, we currently expect covid-19 to have a significant adverse impact on our sales, net income and ebitda as defined continuing at least into fiscal 2021 under the assumption that the covid-19 outbreak will adversely affect our non-defense customers and their demand for our products and services for at least the near term. 16 table of contents the covid-19 pandemic has also disrupted our operations. the outbreak of covid-19 has heightened the risk that a significant portion of our workforce will suffer illness or otherwise be unable to work. furthermore, in light of our reduction in workforce to align operations with customer demand caused by the covid-19 pandemic, we cannot assure that we will be able to rehire our entire workforce once our business has recovered. certain of our facilities have experienced temporary disruptions as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, and we cannot predict whether our facilities will experience more significant disruptions in the future. furthermore, our acquisition strategy, which is a key element of our overall business strategy, may be impacted by our efforts to maintain the company's liquidity position in response to the covid-19 pandemic. finally, future public health crises are possible and could involve some or all of the risks described above. our commercial business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers' planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers' profitability. these items are, in turn, affected by general economic and geopolitical and other worldwide conditions. our commercial business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in rpms, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet, the percentage of the fleet that is out-of-warranty and changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. rpms and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. for example, in addition to the current covid-19 pandemic and the adverse impact it has had on the airline industry, past examples in which the airline industry has been negatively affected include downturns in the global economy, higher fuel prices, increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of september 11, 2001, the severe acute respiratory syndrome ( sars ) epidemic, and conflicts abroad. additional examples include future geopolitical or other worldwide events, such as war, terrorist acts, or additional worldwide infectious disease outbreaks. in addition, global market and economic conditions have been challenging due to turbulence in the u.s. and international markets and economies and have prolonged declines in business and consumer spending. as a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from the aforementioned events, the airline industry incurred large losses and financial difficulties. some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. during periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories, and delay refurbishments and discretionary spending. if demand for spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. an adverse change in demand could impact our results of operations, collection of accounts receivable and our expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses which may adversely impact our financial condition and access to capital markets. u.s. military spending is dependent upon the u.s. defense budget. the military and defense market is significantly dependent upon government budget trends, particularly the dod budget. in addition to normal business risks, our supply of products to the u.s. government is subject to unique risks largely beyond our control. dod budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, a change in defense spending policy as a result of the presidential election or otherwise, the u.s. government's budget deficits, spending priorities (e.g., allocating more spending to combat the effects of the covid-19 pandemic), the cost of sustaining the u.s. military presence internationally and possible political pressure to reduce u.s. government military spending, each of which could cause the dod budget to remain unchanged or to decline. a significant decline in u.s. military expenditures could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the u.s. government. our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. there has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the operating performance of the companies issuing the securities. these market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. such changes could be caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in oem and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins. or such changes could be unrelated to our operating performance, such as changes in market conditions affecting the stock market generally or the stocks of aerospace companies or changes in the outlook for our common stock, such as changes to or the confidence in our business strategy, changes to or confidence in our management, or expectations for future growth of the company. global health crises such as the current covid-19 pandemic, with the breadth of its impact worldwide, could also cause significant volatility in the market price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates. our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk is principally our variable rate debt. in 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority announced that after 2021 it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate libor and other interbank offered rates, which have been widely used as reference rates for various securities and financial contracts, including loans, debt and derivatives. regulators in the u.s. and other jurisdictions have been working to replace these rates with alternative reference interest rates that are supported by transactions in liquid and observable markets, such as the sofr. in february 2020, in connection with amendment no. 7 to the credit agreement, we amended the credit agreement to include a provision for the determination of an alternative reference interest rate. the discontinuation of libor will also require our derivative agreements to be amended. once the alternative interest rate has replaced libor, our future interest expense could be impacted. at september 30, 2020, we had borrowings under our term loans of approximately $7,449 million that were subject to interest rate risk. borrowings under our term loans bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted libor for a one-, two-, three- or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine- or twelve-month) interest period chosen by us, in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. accordingly, the company's cash flows and earnings will be exposed to the market risk of interest rate changes resulting from variable rate borrowings under our term loans. the company's objective is to maintain an allocation of at least 75% fixed rate and 25% variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. as of september 30, 2020, approximately 84% of our debt was fixed rate debt. the effect of a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase the annual interest costs under our term loans by approximately $75 million based on the amount of outstanding borrowings at september 30, 2020. the weighted average interest rate on the $7,449 million of borrowings under our term loans on september 30, 2020 was 3.2%. interest rate swaps and caps used to hedge and offset, respectively, the variable interest rates on the credit facility are described in note 21, derivatives and hedging activities, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. we do not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes. for information about the fair value of the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our term loans and the fair value of the notes, see note 20, fair value measurements, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. foreign currency risk certain of our foreign subsidiaries' sales and results of operations are subject to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in which we transact business could materially adversely affect our net sales, net income and the carrying values of our assets located outside the u.s. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. if the u.s. dollar were to strengthen, our foreign results of operations would be unfavorably impacted, but the effect is not expected to be material. a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would not have resulted in a material impact to net income for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018.