risk factors 25 risk factors conditions in israel for further information). the company also has secondary manufacturing facilities located in the u.k., mexico, australia and india, along with a joint venture located in china. the company supplements its production capabilities with the purchase of some product from outside sources. during fiscal 2014 , the approximate average capacity utilization was 60 - 65% for the company's worldwide facilities. the capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times due to various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of the cough/cold/flu, allergy or flea and tick seasons and new product launches. the company may utilize available capacity by contract manufacturing for other companies. the company has logistics facilities located in the u.s., israel, the u.k., mexico and australia. both contract freight and common carriers are used to deliver products. seasonality revenues in the company's consumer healthcare segment are generally subject to the seasonal demands for cough/cold/flu products in its second and third fiscal quarters and allergy products in its first and fourth fiscal quarters. historically, the company's sales of these products have varied from year to year based in large part on the severity and length of the cough/cold/flu season. while the company believes that the severity and length of these seasons will continue to impact its sales of cough/cold/flu/oral electrolytes and allergy products, there can be no assurance that the company's future sales of these products will necessarily follow historical patterns. in addition, the company's animal health products are subject to the seasonal demand for flea and tick products, which typically peaks during the warmer weather months. revenues for the nutritionals, rx pharmaceuticals and api segments, as well as the other category, are generally not impacted significantly by seasonal conditions. materials sourcing affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of the company's business units due to the nature of the products it manufactures. raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets and components are limited, or are available from one or only a few suppliers. while the company has the ability to manufacture and supply certain api materials for the consumer healthcare segment, certain components and finished goods are purchased rather than manufactured because of temporary production limitations, fda restrictions or economic and other factors. historically, the company has been able to react to situations that require alternate sourcing. should alternate sourcing be required, fda requirements placed on products approved through the anda or nda process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. the company has good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of its suppliers and has historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to its volume of purchases. 13 environmental the company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations. the company believes that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations will not be material to the business of the company. the company does not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding. in march and june of 2007, lawsuits were filed by three separate groups against both the state of israel and the council of neot hovav in connection with waste disposal and pollution from several companies, including the company, that have operations in the neot hovav region of israel. these lawsuits were subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding in the district court of beer-sheva. the council of neot hovav, in june 2008, and the state of israel, in november 2008, asserted third-party claims against several companies, including the company. the pleadings allege a variety of personal injuries arising out of the alleged environmental pollution. neither the plaintiffs nor the third-party claimants were required to specify a maximum amount of damages, but the pleadings allege damages in excess of $72.5 million, subject to foreign currency fluctuations between the israeli shekel and the u.s. dollar. on january 9, 2013, the district court of beer-sheva ruled in favor of the company. on february 20, 2013, the plaintiffs filed an appeal to the supreme court, which has scheduled a hearing on this matter on september 29, 2014. while the company intends to vigorously defend against these claims, the company cannot reasonably predict at this time the outcome or the liability, if any, associated with these claims. corporate social responsibility the company is committed to doing business in an ethical manner. the company has a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where the company is located. the company's corporate social responsibility commitment statement highlights seven areas at the heart of its efforts: helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable healthcare products; complying with regulatory and legal requirements; demonstrating environmental stewardship; continuously improving packaging sustainability; protecting human rights of its global employees and challenging its partners to do the same; providing a safe and healthy work environment for its employees; and establishing effective community partnerships. through these efforts, the company strives to minimize its impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices and ensure the welfare of its employees now and into the future. government regulation the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising and sale of the company's products are subject to regulation by one or more u.s. agencies, including the fda, the ftc, the dea, the usda, the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and the consumer product safety commission ("cpsc"), as well as several foreign, state and local regulatory agencies in localities in which the company's products are sold. in addition, the company manufactures and markets certain of its products in accordance with standards set by organizations, such as the united states pharmacopeial convention, inc. ("usp"), nsf international ("nsf"), and the international organization for standardization ("iso"). the company believes that its policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations. u.s. food and drug administration the fda has jurisdiction over the company's anda, nda and otc monograph drug products, infant formulas, dietary supplements, food products and medical devices. the fda's jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage and distribution of these products. otc and u.s. generic prescription pharmaceuticals - many of the company's otc pharmaceutical products are regulated under the otc monograph system and subject to certain fda regulations. otc monographs have been established through the fda's otc review utilizing the notice-and-comment rulemaking 14 procedures. under the otc monograph system, selected otc drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the submission and approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing. the fda otc monographs include well-known ingredients and specify requirements for permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients and dosage levels. drug products marketed under the otc monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula and labeling requirements; however, these products can be developed and marketed without prior fda approval unlike products requiring a submission and approval of an anda or nda. in general, it is less costly to develop and bring to market a product regulated under the otc monograph system. from time to time, adequate information may become available to the fda regarding certain anda or nda drug products that will allow the reclassification of those products as no longer requiring the approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing. for this reason, there may be increased competition and lower profitability related to a particular product should it be reclassified to the otc monograph system. the fda and usp have embarked on an initiative to modernize the monograph requirements of otc drugs. the company is monitoring the situation and will make appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance. in addition, regulations may change from time to time, requiring formulation, packaging or labeling changes for certain products. the company cannot predict whether new legislation regulating the company's activities will be enacted, what effect any legislation would have on the company's business or how this may impact the competitive landscape. the company also markets generic prescription drugs and other products that have switched from prescription to otc status through an application process initiated by the innovator company that holds the original clinical trial data. these products require approval by the fda of an anda or nda prior to commercial marketing. based on current fda regulations, andas and ndas provide information on chemistry, manufacturing controls, clinical safety, efficacy and/or bioequivalence, packaging and labeling. the development process for a generic drug generally requires less time and expense than the development process for a new drug. the fda requires the anda or nda sponsor to submit data demonstrating the product is bioequivalent to the reference listed drug. bioequivalence studies for systematically absorbed products are typically performed using a small number of subjects in a controlled clinical environment. products that are locally acting require end-point clinical studies, with a significant number of subjects, performed in patient populations, and are generally larger in study size and longer in duration. the current anda median approval time is approximately 34 months from the date an anda is submitted. nda approval times are significantly shorter and typically are achieved in 16 months or less. changes to a product marketed under an anda or nda are governed by specific fda regulations and guidelines that define when proposed changes can be implemented and whether prior fda notice and/or approval is required. under the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984 (the hatch-waxman amendments to the federal food, drug and cosmetic act), a company submitting an nda can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for an rx product or an rx to otc switch product if the company performs a clinical study that is essential to fda approval. longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs, and drugs under the generating antibiotic incentives now act. while the exclusivity period is in force, the fda cannot approve any andas for a similar or equivalent generic product. where three years of exclusivity is granted to the innovator company, the company will be unable to market the product during this period unless the company establishes a relationship with the company having exclusive marketing rights. there can be no assurance that, in the event the company applies for fda approvals, the company will obtain the approvals to market rx, rx to otc switch products or otc anda products or, alternatively, that the company will be able to obtain these products from other manufacturers. under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act ("ffdca"), a manufacturer may obtain an additional six months (which, under certain circumstances, may be extended to one year) of exclusivity if the innovator conducts pediatric studies requested by the fda on the product. this exclusivity will, in certain instances, delay fda approval and the sales by the company of certain anda and other products. if the company is first to file its anda and meets certain requirements relating to the patents owned or licensed by the brand company, the company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for that product. when a company submits an anda, the company is required to include a patent certification to certain patents that are identified with the innovator product. if the anda applicant challenges the validity of the innovator's patent or certifies that its product does not infringe the patent, thereby seeking to market its product prior to the patent expiry, the product innovator may sue for infringement. the legal action would not ordinarily result in material damages but could prevent the company from introducing the product if it is not successful in the legal action. the company would, however, incur the cost of defending the legal action and that action could have the effect of triggering a statutorily mandated delay in fda approval of the anda for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge. in addition, if generic exclusivity is granted to the company, there 15 can be no assurance that the company will be able to market the product at the beginning of the exclusivity period or that the exclusivity will not be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics. it is possible that more than one applicant files the first anda on the same day and exclusivity is shared. this may happen by chance, but more likely when there is a certain type of innovator exclusivity that prevents the filing of all andas until a specific date. as a result of events that are outside of the company's control, the company may forfeit its exclusivity. finally, if the company is not first to file its anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of the company's product. the company's prescription drug products that are marketed without approved applications must meet certain manufacturing and labeling standards established by the fda. the fda's policy with respect to the continued marketing of unapproved products is stated in the fda's september 2011 compliance policy guide, titled "marketed new drugs without approved ndas or andas." under this policy, the fda has stated that it will follow a risk-based approach with regard to enforcement against such unapproved products. the fda evaluates whether to initiate enforcement action on a case-by-case basis, but gives higher priority to enforcement action against products in certain categories, such as those marketed as unapproved drugs with potential safety risks and that lack evidence of effectiveness. the fda recognizes that certain unapproved products, based on the introduction date of their active ingredients and the lack of safety concerns, among other things, have been marketed for many years and, at this time, might not be subject to immediate enforcement action. see further information related to regulation by the fda in item 1a. risk factors. all facilities where rx and otc drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored or distributed must comply with fda cgmps and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries where the facilities are located. all of the company's drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored and distributed according to cgmp regulations. the fda performs periodic audits to ensure that the company's facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. the failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to a breach of representations made to store brand customers or to regulatory action against the company related to the products made in that facility, including suspension of or delay in anda approvals, seizure, injunction or recall. serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against the company that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of the company's products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition or operating results. in addition, several bills have been introduced in congress that could, if enacted, affect the manufacture and marketing of rx and otc drugs. the company cannot predict whether new legislation regulating the company's activities will be enacted or what effect any legislation would have on the company's business. the company submits a drug master file ("dmf") for active pharmaceutical ingredients to be commercialized in the u.s. the dmf filings provide an efficient mechanism for fda review while protecting the company's proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. the manufacturing facilities are inspected by the fda to assess cgmp compliance. the manufacturing facilities and production procedures utilized must be cgmp compliant before api may be exported to the u.s. for european markets, the company submits a european dmf and, where applicable, obtains a certificate of suitability from the european directorate for the quality of medicines. the manufacturing facilities and production procedures for api marketed in europe must meet eu-gmp and european pharmacopeia standards. infant formula - the fda's center for food safety and applied nutrition is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. the office of nutrition, labeling and dietary supplements ("onlds") has program responsibility for infant formula, while the office of food additive safety ("ofas") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. the onlds evaluates whether the infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the ffdca and consults with the ofas regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula. all manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. the specific requirements for infant formula are governed by the infant formula act. the purpose of the infant formula act is to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum, and in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients. once an infant formula product is formulated, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation before marketing the infant formula. the fda has established requirements for certain labeling, nutrient content, and manufacturer quality control procedures (to 16 assure the nutrient content of infant formulas), as well as for company records and reports. a manufacturer must notify the fda 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. the fda recently issued a final rule regarding good manufacturing practices, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records, for the production of infant formulas. the company actively monitored this process and is making appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance. in addition, as part of its responsibility to implement the provisions of the ffdca, the fda continuously monitors infant formula products. the ffdca requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life, to keep records on production, testing and distribution of each batch of infant formula and to use current good manufacturing practices and quality control procedures. in addition, the ffdca requires infant formula manufacturers to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which are reviewed to reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. the fda conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula. the fda also inspects new facilities during early production runs. as part of the inspection, the fda collects and analyzes samples of infant formula. dietary supplements - the dietary supplement health and education act of 1994 ("dshea") amended the ffdca to, among other things: (1) define dietary supplements and dietary ingredients, (2) require ingredient and nutrition labeling for dietary supplements, (3) permit "structure/function" statements for dietary supplements, (4) permit the display of certain published literature where supplements are sold, (5) authorize the fda to establish gmps specifically for dietary supplements, and (6) require the submission of new dietary ingredient notification to the fda. the dshea provides specific nutrition labeling requirements for dietary supplements that are slightly different than those for conventional foods. all supplements must bear a "supplement facts" box, which lists all of the supplement's dietary ingredients using nomenclature as specified by fda regulation. dshea also permits dietary supplements to bear statements (1) claiming a benefit related to a classical nutrient deficiency disease, provided the prevalence of the disease in the u.s. is disclosed, (2) describing the role of a nutrient or dietary ingredient intended to affect the structure or function in humans, (3) characterizing the documented mechanism by which a nutrient or dietary ingredient acts to maintain such structure or function, and (4) describing general well-being from consumption of a nutrient or dietary ingredient. the company is subject to regulations published by the fda clarifying the types of "structure function" statements permissible in dietary supplement labeling. such statements cannot expressly or implicitly state that a dietary supplement has any effect on a "disease." as with foods in general, dietary supplement labeling may include a "health claim," which characterizes the role of a nutrient to a disease or health-related condition. on june 25, 2007, the fda issued final gmp regulations specific to dietary supplements, which became effective as they relate to the company on june 25, 2008. the company continues to invest in its dietary supplement operations to ensure compliance with the regulations. the company continuously monitors fda activities, including publicly available inspection reports of other companies ' inspections, to ensure that its operations and quality systems are maintained in a state of compliance based on the current interpretation of the regulations. the company has not yet been inspected and cannot determine with certainty what effects the fda ' future interpretations of the regulations will have on its business. the gmp regulations and fda ' future interpretations of these regulations could, among other things, require expanded documentation of the manufacturing processes for certain products or additional analytical testing for certain ingredients. in addition, several bills have been introduced in congress that could, if enacted, affect the manufacture and marketing of dietary supplements. the company cannot predict whether new legislation regulating the company ' activities will be enacted or what effect any legislation would have on the company ' business. the dshea requires that the fda be notified at least 75 days in advance of the introduction of a dietary supplement that contains a dietary ingredient that was introduced to market after october 15, 1994 or was present in the food supply in a form where the food had not been chemically altered. the notification must provide information establishing that the dietary supplement containing the dietary ingredient will reasonably be expected to be safe. food safety modernization act - portions of the nutritionals segment's business are subject to the food safety modernization act ("fsma"), which became law in 2011. the stated purpose of the fsma is to ensure u.s. foods are safe by shifting the focus from containment of contamination to prevention. the law mandates 17 comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. it also gives the fda mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers. the fsma impacts food and food ingredient imports through a supplier verification program. under the fsma, the fda is also taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of an outbreak. the fda has yet to issue a complete set of regulations under the fsma. additional clarity is expected once the regulations are finalized. u.s. department of agriculture the organic foods production act enacted under title 21 of the 1990 farm bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic". the company's infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio adhere to the standards of the usda national organic program for the production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. the company's infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio are usda-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for u.s. and canadian markets. u.s. environmental protection agency pet care products - the epa is responsible for the regulation of companion animal flea and tick products that are applied and act topically. the active ingredients in flea and tick products are pesticides that are regulated under the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. pesticides cannot be distributed or sold in the u.s. unless they are registered with the epa. the epa may grant a pesticide registration to an applicant after making a determination that the use of the pesticide product will meet the statutory requirement that it will not cause "unreasonable adverse effects on the environment", i.e., the product will not present an unreasonable risk. an applicant must demonstrate that a pesticide product meets the safety and efficacy standards required by epa by submitting an extensive battery of toxicology and efficacy studies, or by providing reference to pre-existing data for the evaluation of possible risks to both humans and the animals that may be exposed to the pesticide product. the epa will not approve a product if there is any reason to doubt that the product can be used safely and efficaciously. when the epa issues a registration for a pesticide product, the epa approves the precise formula for the product and the language in the product labeling. it is a violation of u.s. law for a company to distribute or sell a pesticide product that deviates from the formulation composition and label language approved by the epa. the epa and state regulators conduct cooperative compliance programs to monitor pesticide products and if necessary, take appropriate enforcement actions. in addition to the registration process, the epa conducts a registration review program that periodically re-evaluates pesticides that the epa has approved. new studies may be required, additional safety and use restrictions may be mandated, and, if the epa decides that a product no longer meets the required safety and efficacy standards, the epa can cancel the product registration. companies that hold pesticide product registrations must report any adverse events that may result from the use of the products. the epa reviews these reports and may take action to modify or withdraw a registration if the epa decides that such action is necessary to ensure that the pesticide products meet the stringent safety and efficacy standards mandated by law. u.s. drug enforcement administration the dea regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, and list i chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal controlled substances act ("csa"). the csa and dea regulations impose specific requirements on manufacturers and other entities that handle these substances including registration, recordkeeping, reporting, storage, security and distribution. recordkeeping requirements include accounting for the amount of product received, manufactured, stored and distributed, as well as yield losses. companies handling either controlled substances or list i chemicals are also required to maintain adequate security and to report suspicious orders, thefts and significant losses. the dea periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the csa and its regulations. failure to comply with current and future regulations of the dea could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation or denial of renewal of dea registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties. 18 the company is subject to the requirements of the csa and dea regulations in the handling of any controlled substances in schedules ii v or any of the list i chemicals. specifically, the company is subject to regulation in the commercial manufacture and distribution of products containing the list i drug pseudoephedrine and products containing the schedule ii drugs morphine, hydromorphone and opium. as a result of a series of amendments to the csa, the dea has imposed increased restrictions on the manufacture and distribution of pseudoephedrine products. for example, the comprehensive methamphetamine control act of 1996 was enacted to authorize the dea to monitor transactions involving chemicals that may be used illegally in the production of methamphetamine. the comprehensive methamphetamine control act of 1996 establishes certain registration and recordkeeping requirements for manufacturers of otc cold, allergy, asthma and diet medicines that contain ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or phenylpropanolamine ("ppa"). while certain of the company's otc drug products contain pseudoephedrine, which is a common ingredient in nasal decongestant products, the company's u.s. products contain neither ephedrine nor ppa. in addition, the reauthorization act of 2005, signed into law on march 9, 2006, prevented the existing provisions of the patriot act from expiring and also included the combat methamphetamine epidemic act. this law further amended the csa and provided additional requirements with respect to the manufacture, distribution and sale of pseudoephedrine products. among the various provisions, this national legislation places certain restrictions on the purchase and sale of all products that contain ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or ppa (list i chemical products). the csa also imposed import and procurement quotas for list i chemicals, including pseudoephedrine. the csa, as amended, also imposed daily restrictions on the amount of list i chemical products a retailer may sell to a consumer (3.6 grams per day) and limitations on the amount of list i chemical products a consumer may purchase (9.0 grams) over a 30-day period. further, effective september 30, 2006, the csa requires that (a) retail sellers maintain a logbook that tracks the sales of list i chemical products to individuals, and (b) purchasers provide valid identification in order to purchase list i chemical products. many states have also enacted legislation regulating the manufacture and distribution of pseudoephedrine products. the company is subject to these state requirements as well. medicaid drug rebate program and other drug pricing programs u.s. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b, must enter into a rebate agreement with the u.s. government to pay rebates to state medicaid programs for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program. a u.s. federal government agency, the centers for medicare and medicaid services ("cms"), is responsible for administering the medicaid rebate agreements between the u.s. government and pharmaceutical manufacturers. rebates are due on the utilization of medicaid managed care organizations, as well as under fee-for-service arrangements. drug manufacturers' medicaid rebate agreements, which are between each manufacturer and the secretary of health and human services, provide that the drug manufacturer will remit rebates to each state medicaid agency on a quarterly basis. those rebates are based on pricing data reported by manufacturers to cms, including average manufacturer price ("amp"), which is reported on a monthly and quarterly basis, and, in the case of innovator products, best price, which is reported on a quarterly basis. health reform legislation changed the definition of amp effective the fourth quarter of calendar 2010. pursuant to the same legislation, effective for rebate periods beginning with the first quarter of calendar 2010, the rebate formulas used to determine the minimum rebate amounts due are as follows: for noninnovator products, in general generic drugs marketed under andas, the rebate amount is 13% of the amp for the quarter; for innovator products, in general brand-name products marketed under ndas, the rebate amount is the greater of 23.1% of the amp for the quarter or the difference between such amp and the best price for that same quarter. manufacturers also pay an additional rebate on innovator drugs where price increases since launch have outpaced inflation. the company has a medicaid rebate agreement in effect with the u.s. government. u.s. federal and/or state governments have and are expected to continue to enact measures aimed at reducing the cost of drugs to such governmental payers as well as the public, including the enactment in december 2003 of medicare legislation that expanded the scope of medicare coverage to include outpatient drugs (part d), starting in january 2006, as well as health reform legislation enacted in 2010. management cannot predict the nature of such measures or their impact on the company's profitability. various states have in recent years also adopted supplemental drug rebate programs that are intended to provide the individual states with additional manufacturer rebates on medicaid 19 utilization over and above those required under a manufacturer's u.s. federal medicaid agreement. states also have created drug coverage and corresponding manufacturer rebate programs for non-medicaid populations, known as state pharmaceutical assistance programs. these rebate programs are generally designed to mimic the u.s. federal drug rebate program in terms of how the manufacturer rebates are calculated. although there are a number of supplemental and state pharmacy assistance rebate programs, for the company they are insignificant in the aggregate compared to quarterly medicaid drug rebate obligations. as described herein, cms rules require pharmaceutical companies to calculate and report the amp to cms on a monthly as well as a quarterly basis. in addition to using this information to calculate rebates, cms is preparing to use amp to calculate a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates for multiple source drugs to pharmacies under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ("ful"). prior to using amp, cms typically used pricing data from third-party compendia, such as the average wholesaler price ("awp") or wholesaler acquisition cost ("wac"), in the calculation of fuls. health reform legislation enacted in 2010 amended the statutory definition of amp and also amended the definition of "multiple source drug" in a manner that materially affects the calculation of fuls. cms has begun posting draft amp-based ful reimbursement files on the cms website that are calculated based on the requirements of the health reform legislation. currently, the ful reimbursement files are for review and comment only; however, cms has announced that it plans to publish final fuls after a period of releasing them in draft format. cms issued a proposed rule in february 2012 that provided guidance on the revised amp definition and calculation of fuls but has not issued a final rule. separately, under existing statutory authority granted by the deficit reduction act of 2005, cms has begun collecting retail survey price information from retail community pharmacies to generate publicly available pricing files. cms expects that the pricing files will provide state medicaid agencies with an array of covered outpatient drug prices and that state agencies can use this information to compare their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates to those derived from the surveys. cms has begun posting drafts of this retail survey price information on at least a monthly basis in the form of draft national average drug acquisition cost ("nadac") files, which reflect retail community pharmacy invoice costs, and national average retail price ("narp") files, which reflect retail community pharmacy prices to consumers. in july 2013, cms suspended the publication of draft narp data, pending funding decisions. in november 2013, cms moved to publishing final rather than draft nadac data and has since made updated nadac data publicly available on a weekly basis. the company does not know how the new methodologies for calculating amp and fuls or the retail survey price information will affect the company's pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers will seek to pass on any decrease in medicaid reimbursements to the company. the company cannot predict how the sharing of ful data and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace. manufacturers also must participate in the 340b drug pricing program for u.s. federal funds to be available to pay for their drugs under medicaid and medicare part b. participating manufacturers must agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340b ceiling price for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. sales made by the company pursuant to the 340b program are not material to the company as a whole. u.s. law also requires that a company that participates in the medicaid rebate program report average sales price, or asp, information to cms for certain categories of drugs that are paid under part b of the medicare program. manufacturers calculate asp based on a statutorily defined formula and implementing regulations as to what should or should not be considered in computing asp. an asp for each national drug code for a product that is subject to the asp reporting requirement must be submitted to cms no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. cms uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under medicare part b. statutory or regulatory changes or cms binding guidance could affect the asp calculations for the company's products and the resulting medicare payment rate, and could negatively impact the company's results of operations. pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. the calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by the company, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. the medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on the company's submission to cms of the company's current average manufacturer prices and best prices for the quarter. if the company becomes aware that its reporting for prior quarters was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, the company is obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. such restatements and recalculations increase the company's costs for complying with the 20 laws and regulations governing the medicaid rebate program. any corrections to the company's rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in the company's rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. if the company is found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price, average sales price, or best price information to the government, the company may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. if the company is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of its average sales price, the medicare statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied. the company's failure to submit monthly/quarterly average manufacturer price, average sales price, and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date. such failure also could be grounds for cms to terminate the company's medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which the company participates in the medicaid program. in the event that cms terminates the company's rebate agreement, u.s. federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for the company's covered outpatient drugs. u.s. law requires that for a company to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the medicaid and medicare part b programs, as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, it also must participate in the department of veterans affairs (va) federal supply schedule ("fss") pricing program. to participate, the company is required to enter into an fss contract with the va, under which the company must make its "covered drugs" (i.e., innovators) available to the u.s. "big four" federal agencies - the va, the department of defense, or dod, the public health service, and the coast guard - at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price, or fcp, formula set forth in section 603 of the veterans health care act of 1992, or vhca. the fcp is based on a weighted average wholesaler price known as the "non-federal average manufacturer price," or non-famp, which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the va. if a company misstates non-famps or fcps it must restate these figures. pursuant to the vhca, knowing provision of false information in connection with a non-famp filing can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information. fss contracts are federal procurement contracts that include standard government terms and conditions, separate pricing for each product, and extensive disclosure and certification requirements. all items on fss contracts are subject to a standard fss contract clause that requires fss contract price reductions under certain circumstances where pricing is reduced to an agreed "tracking customer." further, in addition to the "big four" agencies, all other u.s. federal agencies and some u.s. non-federal entities are authorized to access fss contracts. fss contractors are permitted to charge fss purchasers other than the big four agencies "negotiated pricing" for covered drugs that is not capped by the fcp; instead, such pricing is negotiated based on a mandatory disclosure of the contractor's commercial "most favored customer" pricing. the company offers one single fcp-based fss contract price to all fss purchasers. in addition, pursuant to regulations issued by the dod tricare management activity, or tma (now the defense health agency (dha)), to implement section 703 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2008, the company has entered into a section 703 agreement under which the company has agreed to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to tricare beneficiaries by tricare network retail pharmacies. companies are required to list their innovator products on section 703 agreements in order for those products to be eligible for dod formulary inclusion. the formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and the company's section 703 agreement and is based on the difference between the annual non-famp and the fcp (as described above, these price points are required to be calculated by us under the vhca). if the company overcharges the government in connection with its fss contract or section 703 agreement, whether due to a misstated fcp or otherwise, the company is required to refund the difference to the government. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against the company under the federal false claims act and other laws and regulations. unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 21 other regulatory numerous u.s. federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. in addition, most healthcare providers who prescribe product and from whom we may obtain patient health information are subject to privacy and security requirements under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa. the company is not a hipaa covered entity and does not operate as a business associate to any covered entities. therefore, these privacy and security requirements do not apply. however, the company could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. the company is unable to predict whether actions could be subject to prosecution in the event of an impermissible disclosure of health information to the company. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect the business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states requiring security breach notification. the u.s. physician payment sunshine act, being implemented as the open payments program, requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payments database, and public reporting of the payment data. pharmaceutical manufacturers with products for which payment is available under medicare, medicaid or the state children's health insurance program are required to track and report such payments. cms issued a final rule implementing the physician payment sunshine act provisions and clarified the scope of the reporting obligations, as well as that applicable manufacturers must begin tracking on august 1, 2013 and report payment data to cms by july 7, 2014 and annually thereafter. the company has met the reporting requirements. the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977 and other similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties, or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. recently, there has been a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by u.s. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the department of justice and the u.s. securities and exchange commission. a determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence. violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to the company, may result in significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, like medicare and medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of the company's operations. consumer product safety commission under the u.s. poison prevention packaging act ("pppa"), the cpsc has authority to require that certain dietary supplements and certain pharmaceuticals have child-resistant packaging to help reduce the incidence of accidental poisonings. the cpsc has published regulations requiring iron-containing dietary supplements and various pharmaceuticals to have child resistant packaging, and has established rules for testing the effectiveness of child-resistant packaging and for ensuring senior adult effectiveness. the u.s. consumer product safety improvement act of 2008 ("cpsia") amended the consumer product safety act ("cpsa") to require that the manufacturer of any product that is subject to any cpsc rule, ban, standard or regulation certify that based on a reasonable testing program the product complies with cpsc requirements. this certification applies to pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements that require child-resistant packaging under the pppa. the cpsc lifted the stay of enforcement of the certification requirement and the regulation has been in effect since february 9, 2010. 22 federal trade commission the ftc exercises primary jurisdiction over the advertising and other promotional practices of marketers of dietary supplements and otc pharmaceuticals and often works with the fda regarding these practices. the ftc considers whether a product's claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. the ftc is also responsible for reviewing mergers between and acquisitions of pharmaceutical companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigating certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. the ftc could challenge these business practices in administrative or judicial proceedings. for example, in accordance with the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003, agreements between nda and anda holders relating to settlements of patent litigation involving paragraph iv certifications under the hatch-waxman act, as well as agreements between generic applicants that have submitted andas containing paragraph iv certifications where the agreement concerns either company's 180-day exclusivity, must be submitted to the ftc (and the united states department of justice) for review. u.s. state regulation most u.s. states regulate and require approval of a license to manufacture and distribute foods, drugs and pet care products under laws that generally parallel federal statutes. license requirements and fees vary by state. the company is also subject to other state consumer health and safety regulations that could have a potential impact on the company's business if the company is ever found to be non-compliant. united states pharmacopeial convention the usp is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. by reference, the federal food, drug and cosmetic act incorporates the usp quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product's labeling. usp standards exist for most rx and otc pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. the fda typically requires usp compliance as part of cgmp compliance. nsf international nsf is an independent, not-for-profit, non-governmental organization providing risk management services for public health and safety. its services include standards development, product certification, safety audits, management systems registration and education programs. nsf is accredited by the american national standards institute ("ansi"), the occupational safety and health administration and the standards council of canada. these accreditations attest to the competency of services provided by nsf and compliance with established national and international standards for third-party certification. the nsf dietary supplement certification program enables manufacturers to become independently registered by nsf as conforming to voluntary standards that provide a system of processes, procedures and documentation to assure the product produced has the strength, composition, quality and purity represented on the product label. the company also has over 50 store brand products certified under nsf/ansi standard 173 for dietary supplement products. international organization for standardization iso is an internationally recognized standard setting body . the company's infant formula manufacturing sites are iso 9001-2008 certified for quality management systems. iso inspections are conducted at least annually. this iso standard specifies requirements for a quality management system that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. non-u.s. regulation the company, through its affiliates located in the u.k., manufactures, packages and distributes otc and prescription pharmaceuticals and provides contract manufacturing and packaging services for major pharmaceutical and healthcare companies in the u.k. and for export to markets outside the u.k. the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, testing, labeling, advertising and sale of these products are subject to regulation by one or more u.k. agencies, including the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency, the department of 23 health, the department of the environment, her majesty's customs and excise, the department of trade and industry, the health and safety executive and the department of transport. the company manufactures, packages and distributes rx pharmaceutical, otc pharmaceutical and nutritional products in mexico. the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, advertising and sale of these products are subject to regulation by one or more mexican agencies, including the health ministry, the commercial and industrial secretariat, the federal work's secretariat, the environmental natural resources and fishing secretariat, the federal environmental protection ministry, and the treasury and public credit secretariat and its customs government department. the company manufacturers, packages and distributes hospital supplies and rx pharmaceutical, otc pharmaceutical and nutritional products in australia. the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, advertising and sales of these products are subject to regulation by one or more australian agencies, including the therapeutic goods administration ("tga"). the company manufactures and markets certain of its products in accordance with standards set by organizations such as the european directorate of quality medicine ("edqm"). the company believes that its policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations. the company exports otc pharmaceutical and nutritional products, including infant formula, to foreign countries. exporting requirements are regulated by the fda and, where appropriate, dea laws, as well as each individual country's requirements for importation of such products. each country requires approval of these products through a registration process by that country's regulatory agencies. registration requirements include the process, formula, packaging, testing, labeling, advertising and marketing of the products. each country regulates what is required and may be represented to the public on labeling and promotional material. approval for the sale of the company's products by foreign regulatory agencies may be subject to delays. the company manufactures, packages and distributes infant formula products in the u.s., which are exported to customers in china. these products are subject to regulation by multiple chinese regulatory agencies. the regulations applicable to infant formula and imported infant formulas are evolving, and further regulatory revisions are expected to be implemented in the future. in april 2014, the certification and accreditation administration of the people's republic of china (cnca) conducted an assessment on registration of infant formula dairy producers in the u.s. as a result of this assessment the company's vermont infant formula manufacturing site has been approved by cnca to export infant formula to china. in europe and israel, the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products are regulated in a manner similar in many respects to nda and andas in the u.s. legal requirements generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing and importation of any pharmaceutical product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. the registration file relating to any particular product must contain medical data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or manufactured and marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, including in the european union, where these provisions were recently extended, although the application is not uniform. similar provisions may be adopted by additional countries, including israel, where legislation has been proposed. in general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. as these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. the company develops and manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients in israel and india for export to the u.s. and other global markets. the facilities and products are subject to regulation by the applicable regulatory bodies in the place of manufacture as well as the regulatory agency in which the product is exported. the company's israeli facility has been approved by the fda, israel ministry of health ("imoh"), federal institute for drugs and medical devices ("bfarm") of germany, federal commission for the protection against sanitary risks ("cofepris") of mexico, pharmaceutical and medical devices agency ("pmda") of japan, and the korean food and drug administration ("kfda") and has received gmp certification from each agency. the company's india facility has been inspected by the fda and has received gmp certification. 24 employees as of june 28, 2014 , the compan y had approximately 10,220 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, located as follows: country total number of employees number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements u.s. 6,500 290 israel 1,300 550 mexico 1,200 700 u.k. 800 rest of the world 420 item 1a. risk factors. risks related to the company's business risks related to the company's products and industry the company operates in a highly regulated industry. an inability to meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial position and operating results. several u.s. and non-u.s. agencies regulate the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising and sale of the company's products. various state and local agencies also regulate these activities. in addition, the company manufactures and markets certain of its products in accordance with the guidelines established by voluntary standards organizations. should the company or one of its third-party service providers used in the development or commercialization of products fail to adequately conform to these regulations and guidelines, there may be a material adverse impact on the operating results of the company. packaging, labeling or marketing changes mandated by the fda or state and local agencies can have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the company. the u.s. government has enacted the federal drug supply chain security act ("dscsa") that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. compliance with dscsa and future u.s. federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase the company's operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. required changes could also be related to safety or efficacy issues. similarly, the failure by the company or one of its suppliers to comply with manufacturing, quality and testing guidelines and regulations could have a significant adverse impact on the company's operating results. there is also the risk that the fda could require the company to audit or repeat prior bioequivalence or clinical studies or the fda could change or withdraw the approval governing such products, which could have a material adverse impact on the results of the company's operations. the company believes that it generally has a good relationship with the fda, which it intends to maintain. if these relationships should deteriorate, however, the company's ability to bring new and current products to market could be impeded. all u.s. facilities where rx, infant formula, dietary supplements and otc drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored or distributed must comply with fda cgmps. all of the company's anda, nda and otc drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored and distributed according to cgmp regulations. the fda performs periodic audits to ensure that the company's facilities remain in compliance with all applicable regulations. if it finds violations of cgmp, the fda could make its concerns public and could impose sanctions including, among others, fines, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the fda's review of product applications, injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. if imposed, enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on the company's operating results and financial condition. under certain circumstances, the fda also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. although the company has internal compliance programs in place that it believes are adequate, the fda may conclude that these programs do not meet regulatory standards. if compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. 25 the fda's policy regarding the award of a 180-day market exclusivity period to generic manufacturers who successfully challenge patents relating to specific products continues to be the subject of extensive litigation in the u.s. the fda's current interpretation of hatch-waxman is to award 180 days of exclusivity to the first generic manufacturer who files a successful paragraph iv certification under hatch-waxman challenging the patent(s) of the branded product, regardless of whether the manufacturer was sued for patent infringement. although the fda's interpretation may benefit some of the products in the company's pipeline, it may adversely affect others. the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003 provides that the 180-day market exclusivity period provided under hatch-waxman is triggered by the commercial marketing of the product. however, the medicare prescription drug act also contains forfeiture provisions which, if met, will deprive the first paragraph iv filer of exclusivity. additionally, the manufacturer of the branded product may launch a generic version of its own drug, known as an authorized generic. under certain circumstances, the company may not be able to fully exploit its 180-day exclusivity period resulting from it being the first filer. under the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, the fda has the power to restrict medications that raise serious safety concerns. this law requires, and provides funding for, the fda to monitor drugs after they go on the market. in addition, this law requires companies to make public the results of many of their studies. under this law, the fda has the authority to require new studies, limit distribution or order label changes. because of this law, the company's ability to bring new and current products to market could be impeded, which could have a negative material impact on the company's financial position or results of operations. the company's prescription drug products that are marketed without approved applications must meet certain manufacturing and labeling standards established by the fda. the fda's policy with respect to the continued marketing of unapproved products is stated in the fda's september 2011 compliance policy guide, titled "marketed new drugs without approved ndas or andas." under this policy, the fda has stated that it will follow a risk-based approach with regard to enforcement against such unapproved products. the fda evaluates whether to initiate enforcement action on a case-by-case basis, but gives higher priority to enforcement action against products in certain categories, such as those marketed as unapproved drugs with potential safety risks or that lack evidence of effectiveness. the fda recognizes that certain unapproved products, based on the introduction date of their active ingredients and the lack of safety concerns, among other things, have been marketed for many years and, at this time, might not be subject to immediate enforcement action. the company believes that so long as it complies with applicable manufacturing and labeling standards, it will be in compliance with the fda's current enforcement policy. there can be no assurance that the fda will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with any individual product or group of products. if the fda were to take a contrary position, the company may be required to seek fda approval for these products or withdraw such products from the market. for fiscal 2014 , the company's annual sales for such unapproved products were approximately $36 million. the nonprescription drug advisory committee met in december 2007 to discuss the efficacy of phenylephrine, an active ingredient used in various cough and cold products as a nasal decongestant. the advisory committee vote recommended that available data is "supportive" of the efficacy of phenylephrine at 10 milligrams. in addition, the advisory committee recommended additional evidence to support the efficacy of a 10 milligram dose of phenylephrine. the recommendations by the advisory committee are not binding on the fda. it is not known at this time what, if any, further action the fda or industry will take in response to recommendations of the advisory committee. in fiscal 2014 , products containing phenylephrine generated revenues of approximately $77.7 million . in october 2007, the fda convened a joint meeting of the pediatric and nonprescription drugs advisory committees to discuss the safety and efficacy of otc cough and cold products for use in children. the advisory committees recommended that these products no longer be used in children under the age of six. on october 8, 2008, the fda issued a statement supporting the voluntary action of the consumer healthcare product association ("chpa"), of which the company is a member, to modify product labels for consumers of otc cough and cold medicines to state "do not use" in children under four years of age. the company completed the chpa recommended revisions to all otc cough and cold products in april 2010. the fda has not issued any further guidance about the labeling of otc cough and cold medicines in children two years of age and older. sales of the company's pediatric cough and cold products could be adversely affected should the fda adopt the more restrictive recommendations of the advisory committee. the company's activities with respect to its infant formula products also may be subject to barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and dictating the specific 26 content of infant formula products. in addition, regulatory changes or decisions that restrict the manufacture, labeling and availability of the company's infant formula products could affect the company's results of operations. for example, certain governmental agencies, non-governmental organizations and consumer advocates have lobbied against the marketing and sale of some infant formula products. these efforts could result in increased regulatory restrictions or enforcement. the u.s. government will likely continue to enhance its regulations on the industry aimed to ensure the safety and quality of dairy products, including, but not limited to, compulsory batch-by-batch inspection and testing for additional safety and quality issues. such inspections and testing may increase the company's operating costs related to its infant formula products. additionally, the fda is beginning to scrutinize claims on infant formula labels. labeling changes required for regulatory compliance could render packaging inventories obsolete. the food and drug administration safety and innovation act ("fdasia") was signed into law on july 9, 2012. the law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, fda authority concerning drug shortages, changes to enhance the fda's inspection authority of the drug supply chain, and a limited extension of the generic drug paragraph iv 30-month stay provision. the fdasia also reduced the time required for fda responses to generic blocking citizen petitions. the company implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of fdasia. the company monitors facility self-identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications. on august 1, 2013, the fda released a drug safety communication notifying the public of an association between acetaminophen and the risk of rare, but serious, skin reactions (reddening of the skin, rash, blisters, detachment of the skin's upper surface). this resulted from a review of the fda adverse event database (1969-2012) and reports in the medical literature. other prescription and otc drugs used to treat fever and pain/body aches (e.g., non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or nsaids, such as ibuprofen and naproxen) also carry the risk of causing serious skin reactions, which is already described in the warnings section of their drug labels. as a result of these findings, the fda has required the addition of a warning addressing serious skin reactions to prescription drug products containing acetaminophen. the fda has also requested that manufacturers of acetaminophen otc products marketed under a new drug application or under the otc monograph add a similar warning. the warning has not materialized or resulted in a change in product sales. on june 10, 2014, the fda published a final rule ("fr") entitled "current good manufacturing practices, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and records and reports, for infant formula." the fr includes, among other things, new or modified requirements related to infant formula manufacturing, quality controls, record-keeping, and clinical trials. while it is uncertain how the fda will interpret and enforce the fr, the company is taking steps to comply with the provisions of the fr. compliance with the fr may require significant expenditures. to the extent the fda believes that the company has not complied with the fr, it could lead to potential supply chain disruptions and delays in commercialization of new infant formula products, which could impede the company's sales and revenue and adversely affect the company's financial position or results of operations. the fda conducts non-prescription drug advisory committee meetings to evaluate the safety of introducing new prescription categories to the otc market. the expansion of category switches is critical to the future growth of the company. fda reluctance to approve otc switches in new product categories could impact that growth. the company manufactures products that are safe and effective when used in accordance with label directions; however, certain products contain ingredients that can be used for improper purposes. additional legislation or regulation may be enacted to mitigate improper uses of these ingredients, which could have an adverse impact on the company's sales of such products and resulting income. the company's products are safe and effective when used in accordance with label directions. however, certain products contain ingredients that can be, and in some cases are, used for improper purposes. pseudoephedrine and dextromethorphan are two of these ingredients, but others may exist. increasingly, various efforts are employed by u.s. federal and state governments in an effort to curb this misuse, including the consideration of additional legislation or regulation that may result in further restrictive requirements for the manufacture or sale of products containing these ingredients. the company cannot predict if or when any additional legislation or regulation will be passed and any adverse impact it may have on the company's results of operations. 27 pseudoephedrine - the company produces a number of products that contain the active ingredient pseudoephedrine ("pse"), which is indicated as a nasal decongestant. pse has been under scrutiny as an ingredient illegally used to produce methamphetamine. to address this concern, legislation has been enacted at the u.s. federal level restricting the sales of pse products (i.e., combat methamphetamine epidemic act) and authorizing the dea to place quotas on the amounts of pse raw material that can be procured (i.e., the controlled substances act). at the state level, a number of states have introduced or passed legislation placing additional restrictions on the sale of pse products. in addition, the states of oregon and mississippi have moved pse products to rx status; many localities have passed similar legislation and a few other states have considered moving pse products to rx status. additionally, certain retailers have voluntarily restricted sales of single active ingredient pse-containing products in at least one state. sales of pse products could be adversely affected by action at the u.s. state or federal level to place additional restrictions on the sale of pse products. dextromethorphan - the company manufactures several products that contain the active ingredient dextromethorphan, which is indicated for cough suppression. dextromethorphan has come under scrutiny because of its potential to be abused. legislation has been unsuccessfully introduced at the u.s. federal level over the past few sessions of congress that, if enacted, generally would have prohibited the bulk sale of dextromethorphan and would have imposed an age limit of 18 years old in order to purchase finished products containing dextromethorphan. similarly, six u.s. states and a number of localities have passed legislation to prohibit the sale of dextromethorphan containing products to minors without a prescription. it is possible that other government entities could introduce and pass legislation imposing additional or different restrictions on the sale of dextromethorphan in finished dosage form, such as requiring a minimum age to purchase product. the company cannot predict whether any of the proposed legislation will be passed or, if it is passed, its impact on future revenues attributable to these products. the fda held a meeting of the drug safety and risk management advisory committee on september 14, 2010 to discuss the potential abuse of the drug dextromethorphan and the public health benefits and risks of dextromethorphan use as a cough suppressant in prescription and nonprescription drug products. in a 15-9 vote, an fda advisory panel voted not to restrict dextromethorphan cough medications to prescription-only. it is possible the fda could still recommend in the future that dextromethorphan containing products be considered a scheduled substance, which would remove their status as an otc product. the company cannot predict the likelihood of such activity by the fda or any adverse impact such activity may have on the company's results of operations. in fiscal 2014 , products containing dextromethorphan generated revenues of approximately $131.3 million . acetaminophen - the company manufactures several products that contain the active ingredient acetaminophen, which is indicated as an analgesic. in june 2009, the fda held a public advisory committee meeting to discuss how to address the potential for liver injury related to the risk of overdose of acetaminophen in both otc and rx products. the fda expressly stated that the risk of developing liver injury to the individual patient who uses the drug according to directions is extremely low and that it is not seeking to remove acetaminophen from the market. however, due to the extensive use of acetaminophen-containing products, the fda sought guidance from several advisory committees regarding measures to reduce the potential for liver injury associated with acetaminophen use. measures discussed include, but were not limited to, reducing the maximum single-dose and daily-dose, reducing packaging sizes, and increasing consumer educational efforts regarding such products. at a may 2011 meeting of the fda's nonprescription drugs advisory committee and pediatric advisory committee to review efforts to reduce medication errors around the use of single-ingredient pediatric acetaminophen, the fda joint committees unanimously voted: (1) in support of the addition to the label of weight-based dosing for children ages two to twelve; (2) that the pharmacokinetic ("pk"), safety and efficacy data would be required to support the addition of new label directions for children six months to two years of age; and (3) that the new labeling for children six months to two years of age include the indication for fever reduction. the committees did not support an indication in labeling for children six months to two years of age for relief of pain; this indication is currently included for children over two years of age. the fda is reviewing the input it received from the advisory committees and additional comments submitted through the docket. in fiscal 2014 , products containing acetaminophen generated revenues of approximately $260.1 million for the company. the company cannot predict whether the fda will adopt any recommendations of the advisory committees regarding the sale and use of acetaminophen or whether any such recommendations, if adopted by the fda, would impact future revenues attributable to these products. 28 u.s. federal and state healthcare reform and related changes to reimbursement methods, as well as measures in israel and many european countries, may have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in north america, israel and many european countries. both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. in many countries where the company currently operates, pharmaceutical prices are subject to regulation. in the u.s., numerous proposals that would effect changes in the u.s. healthcare system and the pharmaceutical industry have been introduced or proposed in congress and in some state legislatures that could include, but not be limited to, intellectual property, regulatory, antitrust, drug pricing and product liability issues. similar activities are taking place throughout europe. as a result of governmental budgetary constraints, the israel ministry of health and the major israeli health funds have sought to further reduce healthcare costs by, among other things, applying continuous pressure to reduce pharmaceutical prices and inventory levels. the company cannot predict the nature of the measures that may be adopted, how they will be interpreted by the courts or the administrative agencies charged with enforcing them or their impact on the marketing, pricing and demand for its products. the company has a medicaid rebate agreement in effect with the u.s. federal government. u.s. federal and/or state governments have enacted and are expected to continue to enact measures aimed at reducing the cost of drugs to such governmental payers as well as the public, including health reform legislation enacted in 2010. management cannot predict the nature of such measures or their impact on the company's profitability. various u.s. states have in recent years also adopted supplemental drug rebate programs that are intended to provide the individual states with additional manufacturer rebates on medicaid utilization over and above those required under a manufacturer's federal medicaid agreement. states also have created drug coverage and corresponding manufacturer rebate programs for non-medicaid populations, known as state pharmaceutical assistance programs. these rebate programs are generally designed to mimic the u.s. federal drug rebate program in terms of how the manufacturer rebates are calculated. although there are a number of supplemental and state pharmacy assistance rebate programs, for the company they are insignificant in the aggregate compared to its medicaid drug rebate obligations. as discussed under " medicaid drug rebate program and other drug pricing programs ," the company is required to report amp data to cms on a monthly as well as a quarterly basis. in addition to using amp to calculate medicaid rebates, cms is preparing to use amp to calculate a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates for multiple source drugs to pharmacies under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ("ful"). prior to using amp, cms typically used pricing data from third-party compendia, such as the awp or wac, in the calculation of fuls. health reform legislation enacted in 2010 amended the statutory definition of amp and also amended the definition of "multiple source drug" in a manner that materially affects the calculation of fuls. cms has begun posting draft amp-based ful reimbursement files on the cms website that are calculated based on the requirements of the health reform legislation. currently, the ful reimbursement files are for review and comment only; however, cms has announced that it plans to publish final fuls after a period of releasing them in draft format. cms issued a proposed rule in february 2012 that provided guidance on the revised amp definition and calculation of fuls but has not issued a final rule. separately, under existing statutory authority granted by the deficit reduction act of 2005, cms has begun collecting retail survey price information from retail community pharmacies to generate publicly available pricing files. cms expects that the pricing files will provide state medicaid agencies with an array of covered outpatient drug prices and that state agencies can use this information to compare their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates to those derived from the surveys. cms has begun posting drafts of this retail survey price information on at least a monthly basis in the form of draft nadac files, which reflect retail community pharmacy invoice costs, and narp files, which reflect retail community pharmacy prices to consumers. in july 2013, cms suspended the publication of draft narp data, pending funding decisions. in november 2013, cms moved to publishing final rather than draft nadac data and has since made updated nadac data publicly available on a weekly basis. the company does not know how the new methodologies for calculating amp and fuls or the retail survey price information will affect the company's pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers will seek to pass on any decrease in medicaid reimbursements to the company. the company cannot predict how the sharing of ful and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace. the company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues outside the u.s., too. in the european union and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored 29 healthcare system. many countries are seeking to reduce their public expenditures on healthcare. these efforts may result in patient access restrictions, increased pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. the company's reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. any determination that the company has failed to comply with those obligations could subject it to penalties and sanctions, which could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. the regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex and are often subject to interpretation by the company, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. the company's calculations and methodologies are subject to review by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in challenges to the company's submissions. if there is ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments, and even in the absence of any such ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position that the company has taken and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions. in addition, because these calculations involve, and will continue to involve, subjective decisions and complex methodologies, they are subject to the risk of errors. any governmental agencies that have commenced or that may commence an investigation of the company could impose civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and possible exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare programs (including medicaid and medicare). furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments, and even in the absence of any such ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position that we have taken and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions on us, as disclosed above. any such penalties, sanctions, or exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare programs could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of its common stock to decline. in june 2013, the company received notices from the office of the attorney general for the state of texas, of civil investigative demands to two of the company's affiliates, perrigo pharmaceuticals company and paddock laboratories, llc, for information under the texas medicaid fraud prevention act relating to the submission of prices to texas medicaid in claims for reimbursement for drugs. the company has cooperated with requests for information and is in the process of evaluating this and other information. while the company does not know the full extent of its potential liability at this time and intends to vigorously defend against any claims, the company could be subject to material penalties and damages. the company established a contingency loss accrual of $15.0 million to cover potential settlement or other outcomes. the company cannot predict whether settlement on terms acceptable to it will occur, or that a settlement or potential liability for these claims will not be greater than the amount recorded. unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the company's products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse impact on the company's business. the company is dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of its products. negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations or recalls, regardless of whether such media reports, claims, investigations or recalls involve the company or its products. the mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients or concerns about the company's products or the raw materials used in the company's products could have a material adverse effect on the company, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported. for example, any major outbreak of illness or disease in cows could lead to a serious loss of consumer confidence in, and demand for, dairy products, including the company's infant formula products. adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether valid or not, may negatively impact consumer perceptions and may discourage consumers from buying one or more of the company's products, such that the company's sales may decline and the company may suffer losses in its business. the company may incur liabilities or experience negative effects on its reputation as a result of any real or perceived quality issues with the company's products. the company's products involve risks such as product contamination, spoilage, mislabeling and tampering that could require the company to recall one or more of its products. serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against the company that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of the company's products, product 30 seizures, loss of certain licenses, delays in the issuance of governmental approvals for new products or other governmental penalties. adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding the quality of the company's products, particular ingredients, or the industries in which the company competes could result in a substantial decrease in demand for the company's products. the company cannot guarantee that counterfeiting, imitation, or other tampering with its products will not occur or that the company will be able to detect and resolve it if it happens. any occurrence of counterfeiting or contamination could negatively impact sales of the company's products, particularly if counterfeit or imitation products cause death or injury to consumers of those products. additionally, powdered infant formula products are not sterile. all of the company's infant formula products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. depending on the product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw materials, the processing and packaging of food products, and the use and handling by consumers, hospital personnel and health care professionals. in the event that certain of the company's infant formula products are found or alleged to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not such products are under the company's control, the company's reputation and its infant formula product category could be materially adversely affected. the company's infant formula product category is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. the company's results of operations depend, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. to the extent that private, public and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products, and the company's infant formula products business could be adversely affected. the company's infant formula product category may also be affected by medical research relating to the healthfulness of cow's milk in the human diet. for example, adverse research may raise concerns about the fat, cholesterol, calorie, sodium and lactose content or contamination of dairy products, including infant formula. any significant shift in consumer preference away from the use of infant formula may materially and adversely affect the results of operations of the company's infant formula product category. additionally, the company's infant formula product category could be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the u.s. federal government through the women, infants and children program, as the company does not participate in this program. the company believes that growth in the nutritional products business is based largely on national media attention regarding scientific research suggesting potential health benefits from regular consumption of certain vitamin and other nutritional products. there can be no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention, or the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings. in the event of future unfavorable scientific results or media attention, the company's sales of nutritional products could be materially adversely impacted. the company manufactures spot-on pesticides for the monthly control of fleas, ticks, or other external parasites in dogs and cats. these products are safe and effective when used in accordance with label directions; however, pesticide ingredients may cause harm to animals and humans if used improperly. additional regulation may be enacted to mitigate improper uses of these ingredients, which could have an adverse impact on the company's sales of such products and resulting income. in spring 2009, the epa noticed an increase in pet incidents being reported involving spot-on pesticide products for pets. the epa received a large amount of information on individual reported adverse pet incidents from the companies that hold registrations for these products (called the registrants). the epa also reviewed other information that was submitted. the epa formed an expert veterinarian team to thoroughly analyze the data. the epa also partnered with the food and drug administration's center for veterinary medicine ("cvm") and canada's pest management regulatory agency ("pmra") on the review of this analysis. the team studied incidents involving cats and dogs, looked at both active and inert ingredients, studied product labeling, and discussed data needs for the future to improve analyses and regulation. the epa found that the products could be used safely but that some additional restrictions are needed. the epa's team of veterinarians learned that most incidents were minor, but unfortunately there were some pet deaths and "major incidents" reported. the epa learned that the most commonly affected organ systems were dermal, gastrointestinal, and nervous. recommendations to reduce harmful effects include addressing concerns about dosing, improving labeling to avoid confusion between dog and cat products, making labels more understandable with larger fonts and pictograms, addressing uncertainties about the inert ingredients in these products, imposing conditions of registration when granting amendments to existing products or 31 granting new registrations, requiring more standardized reporting on adverse effects and sales, changing data requirements for pre-market clinical trials and implementing a formal post-market surveillance program. future pet spot-on pesticide registrations and amendments to new registrations will be restricted by appropriate conditions and time-limitations to allow the epa to continue to ensure the safety of these products after they are available to the public. the epa mitigation efforts for educating consumers and reducing misuse are ongoing. the company cannot predict whether further label restrictions may be required, or whether additional regulations may be passed, or to the extent of the adverse impact additional restrictions or regulations may have on the company's results of operations. the manufacturing of sterile, injectable products is highly exacting and complex, and if the company's suppliers encounter production problems, it could have an adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company distributes sterile, injectable products that are manufactured by third parties. the manufacture of sterile, injectable products is highly complex and exacting in part due to strict regulatory and safety requirements and standards that govern both the manufacture and packaging of these types of projects. failure of the third-party manufacturers to maintain strict controls or adherence to procedures may result in product recalls and liability claims, which could adversely affect the company's results of operations and reputation. biogen idec is directly responsible for the sales and distribution of tysabri and as a result any change in strategy by biogen idec or negative developments relating to tysabri could have a material impact on the company's revenues, operating income and cash flows. the company acquired a significant revenue stream and a $5.8 billion intangible asset related to sales of the multiple sclerosis drug tysabri with the acquisition of elan. the company collects quarterly royalty payments from biogen idec, which is solely responsible for the sales and distribution of the drug. the tysabri royalty stream is expected to contribute significant revenues, operating income and cash flows to the company's results of operations. any negative developments relating to tysabri , such as safety, efficacy or reimbursement issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, including biosimilars, or adverse regulatory or legislative developments may reduce the payments the company receives and adversely affect the results of operations. new competing products for use in the treatment of multiple sclerosis have (or will soon) entered the market, including tecfidera for which biogen idec launched in the u.s. and europe in fiscal 2014. if any of these competing products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience or safety, future sales of tysabri could be limited, which would reduce royalties received. tysabri 's sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings in the label, including the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ("pml"), a serious brain infection. the risk of developing pml increases with prior immunosuppressant ("is") use, which may cause patients who have previously received is or their physicians to refrain from using or prescribing tysabri . the risk of developing pml also increases with longer treatment duration, with limited experience beyond four years. this may cause prescribing physicians or patients to suspend treatment with tysabri . in addition, the risk of developing pml is heightened when a patient has anti-jc virus ("jcv") antibodies. in january 2012, the u.s. food and drug administration approved a product label change for tysabri that identifies anti-jcv antibody status as a risk factor for pml. this risk had already been incorporated into the european label for tysabri in june 2011. physicians have discontinued treatment and are likely to continue to discontinue treatment with tysabri in patients who test positive for jcv antibodies. increased incidence of pml could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label or result in market withdrawal. additional regulatory restrictions on the use of tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, whether as a result of additional cases of pml or otherwise, may significantly reduce expected revenues and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. in addition, ongoing or future clinical trials involving tysabri , efforts at stratifying patients into groups with lower or higher risk for developing pml and the commercial availability of the jcv antibody assay may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of tysabri . further, the utility of the jcv antibody assay may be diminished as a result of the assay's false negative rate and because a patient who tests negative for jcv antibodies may be infected by the jcv after testing. any or all of the above factors could lead to volatility in the number of patients who begin or continue to use tysabri or discontinue the use of tysabri in any period. 32 the company's success is dependent, in large part, on continued store brand growth for its otc and nutritionals products, which is influenced by factors outside management's control. there can be no assurance that store brand market share will continue to grow; failure to achieve continued growth may adversely impact the company's sales and resulting financial condition. the future growth of u.s. store brand products market share will be influenced, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products, consumer perception and acceptance of the quality of the products available, the development of new products and/or product delivery forms, the market exclusivity periods awarded on rx to otc switch products and the ongoing or growing strength of the retailers' brands in the market. the otc business does not advertise like the national brand companies and thus is largely dependent on retailer promotional activities to drive sales volume and increase market share. growth opportunities for the products in which the company currently has a significant store brand market share (cough/cold/flu/allergy, analgesic, smoking cessation and gastrointestinal products) will be driven by the ability to offer new products to existing u.s. customers. branded pharmaceutical companies may use u.s. state and federal regulatory and legislative means to limit the availability of brand equivalent products. should store brand growth be limited by any of these factors, there could be a significant adverse impact on the operating results of the company. if the company is unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, it may lose market share, and its business and operating results may be materially adversely affected. the company understands that maintaining high levels of customer service requires the company to be able to deliver high quality products to its customers on a timely basis. from time to time, the company may experience interruptions and challenges to its customer service levels due to a variety of factors that may arise. if the company is unable to deliver to expected customer service levels, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, withhold new product introductions and/or end the relationship with the company. if the company is unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, due to these factors or otherwise, the company may lose market share, and its business and operating results may be materially adversely affected. because the company depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of its sales, the company's sales and income would be adversely affected by a disruption of its relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' business. the company believes its primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current marketplace of the retail drug industry. sales to the company's largest customer, walmart, comprised approximately 19% of fiscal 2014 net sales. should walmart's current relationship with the company change adversely, the resulting loss of business could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial position and results of operations. in addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of total net sales, the company does have other significant customers. if the company's relationship with one or more of these other customers, including the terms for doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial position and results of operations. if the company cannot continue to rapidly develop, manufacture and market innovative products that meet customer requirements for performance, safety and cost effectiveness, it may lose market share and its revenues may be negatively impacted. the company's future results of operations depend, to a significant degree, upon its ability to successfully commercialize additional otc and generic prescription drugs and/or innovative pharmaceuticals, infant formulas and api. all pharmaceutical products must meet regulatory standards and/or receive regulatory approvals. the company must prove that the anda or nda drug products are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which typically requires bioequivalency studies or even more extensive clinical trials to demonstrate efficacy of topical products. the development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. products currently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges, and necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, and the company may not be able to successfully and profitably produce and market such products. delays in any part of the process or the company's inability to obtain regulatory approval of its products (including products developed by others to which the company has exclusive marketing rights) could adversely affect operating results by restricting or delaying its introduction of new products. even upon the 33 successful development of a product, the company's customer's failure to launch a product could adversely affect operating results. the fda could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain fda clearance to launch new formulations into the market. continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to the company's business. product margins may decline over time due to the products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice or developments in new drug delivery technology. therefore, new product introductions are necessary for maintenance of the company's current financial condition, and if the company fails to introduce and market new products, the effect on its financial results could be materially adverse. the company contracts with clinical research organizations ("cros") to conduct various studies that are used to support the company's new product development program. during the third quarter of fiscal 2013, certain of the cros used by the company began bankruptcy or receivership proceedings, including pracs institute, llc, pracs institute canada b.c. ltd., comprehensive clinical development, inc., and their related entities. it is uncertain what, if any, impact these insolvency proceedings may have on the ability of those cros to deliver their study results to the company or on the company's ability to rely on research performed by those cros. to the extent those cros cannot deliver their study results to the company or the company cannot rely, in whole or in part, on the research conducted by those cros, it may delay the launch of new products, which could have a material adverse impact on the company's future operating results. these situations are unique and therefore it is uncertain what the position of the fda will be towards the studies conducted by these now bankrupt cros. the fda may be limited in its ability to inspect the study facilities or gain access to source study documents which may result in the company having to repeat biostudies. if these scenarios occur, it would result in approval delays. the company's investment in research and development is expected to increase above recent levels in dollar terms due to the company's ongoing broadening of its otc, anda or nda, generic prescription and specialty api product portfolio, as well as several opportunities for new products that are switching or are anticipated to be switching from rx to otc status. the ability to attract scientists proficient in emerging delivery forms and/or contracting with a third party in order to generate new products of this type is a critical element of the company's long-term plans. should the company fail to attract qualified employees, successfully develop products in a timely manner, or enter into reasonable agreements with third parties, long-term sales growth and profit would be adversely impacted. changes in supply relationships with the company's customers, such as alternate sources for products, withholding new product introductions and/or development of customer store brand programs, could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial position and results of operations. maintaining the supply relationships with the company's customers is critical to its success. the success in recent years of private label marketing and branding programs has increased large retailers' attention to the importance of their store brand programs, and as a result, many are dedicating significant resources to auditing supplier compliance with their quality, ethical and service standards. customers may limit the level of product sourcing with the company in protection of the customer's own interests. any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on the company's financial position and results of operations. the competitive markets in which the company operates could lead to reduced demand for its products in favor of its competitors' products, which could negatively impact its sales, gross margin, and prospects. the markets for otc pharmaceutical, animal health, nutritional, infant formula, generic pharmaceutical and api products are highly competitive. competition is based primarily on price, quality and assortment of products, customer service, marketing support and availability of new products. competition also comes from national brand companies and branded pharmaceutical companies. that competition could be intensified should those companies lower prices or manufacture their own store brand or generic equivalent products. due to the high degree of price competition, the company has not always been able to fully pass on cost increases to its customers. the inability to pass on future cost increases, the impact of store brand competitors and the impact of national brand companies lowering prices of their products, offering special promotional discounts or operating in the store brand market could have a material adverse impact on financial results. the company also sells nationally branded animal health products. the animal health segment has seen a dramatic increase in the direct to consumer advertising of several branded competitors. the company may see an increase in competition as more competitors increase national advertising expenditures. as additional companies come to market with product registrations similar to the company, pricing strategies or marketing support may need to become more competitive. in addition, since the company sells its nutritional products through retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, it may 34 experience increased competition in its nutritional products business through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail and direct sales as more consumers obtain products through these channels. the company has evaluated, and will continue to evaluate, the products and product categories in which it does business. future product line extensions, or deletions, could have a material impact on the company's financial position or results of operations. selling prices of generic drugs typically decline, sometimes dramatically, as competition intensifies due to additional companies receiving approvals for a given product or brands launching authorized generics. to the extent that the company succeeds in being the first to market a generic version of a significant product, the company's sales and profit can be substantially increased in the period following the introduction of such product and prior to a competitor's introduction of an equivalent product. the company's ability to sustain its sales and profitability on any product over time is dependent on both the number of new competitors for such product, some of whom may be significantly larger than the company, and the timing of their approvals. certain competitors are choosing to consolidate in the generic pharmaceutical and nutritional industries. these consolidations may create larger companies with which the company must compete and provide further pressure on prices, development activities or customer retention. the impact of future consolidation in the industry could have a material impact on the company's financial position or results of operations. the company's api business is subject to increased competition from other manufacturers of api located in europe and developing countries, such as india and china. such competition may result in loss of api customers and/or decreased profitability in this business segment. many companies are working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for ms that, if successfully developed, would compete with tysabri . a drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity and, thereafter, it may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars. the company's quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. the company's quarterly operating results depend on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu season and flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by the company and its competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, the magnitude and timing of research and development investments, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by the company's customers and the timing of retailer promotional programs. accordingly, the company may be subject to significant and unanticipated quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in its operating results. changes in estimates regarding fair value of goodwill or intangible assets may result in an adverse impact on the company's results of operations. the company tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events suggest impairment exists. the test for impairment requires the company to make several estimates about fair value, most of which are based on projected future cash flows. changes in these estimates may result in the recognition of an impairment loss. the company's testing in fiscal 2014 resulted in no impairment charges related to goodwill. other intangible assets consist of a portfolio of individual developed product technology/formulation and product rights, distribution and license agreements, customer relationships, non-compete agreements, in-process research and development ("ipr&amp;d") and trade names and trademarks. certain trade names and trademarks, as well as ipr&amp;d assets, are determined to have an indefinite useful life and are not subject to amortization. for intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment analysis is performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value. any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. see note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding impairment of intangible assets. 35 lack of availability of, or significant increases in the cost of, raw materials used in manufacturing the company's products could adversely impact its profit margins and operating results. affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of the company's business units due to the nature of the products the company manufactures. raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets and finished goods purchased by the company are limited, or are available from one or only a few suppliers. in these situations, increased prices, rationing and shortages can occur. in response to these problems the company tries to identify alternative materials or suppliers for such raw materials, bulk tablets and finished goods. fda requirements for products approved through the anda or nda process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. certain material shortages and approval of alternate sources could adversely affect financial results. the rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and the company's ability or inability to pass on these increases to its customers, could have a material impact on the company's financial results. the company maintains several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect the company's ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with the company's higher volume or more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of revenues. as a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations. in addition, raw materials purchased from third parties, including those from foreign countries, may contain counterfeit ingredients or other adulterants. the company maintains a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants and toxic substances. nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of the contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. any future recall or removal would result in additional costs to the company and lost revenue and may give rise to product liability litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the company. the company's infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder and lactose. the company's supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality necessary to meet the needs of the company's infant formula product category. raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond the company's control, including: (1) seasonal factors, such as dairy cows producing more milk in temperate weather than hot or cold weather, drought and extended unseasonably hot or cold weather potentially leading to lower than expected supplies; (2) environmental factors, such as the volume and quality of milk produced by dairy cows being linked closely to the quality of nourishment provided by the surrounding environment; (3) governmental agricultural and environmental policy, such as government grants, subsidies, land provisions, technical assistance, and other agricultural and environmental policies having a direct effect on the viability of individual dairy farmers and dairy farmer cooperatives and the number of dairy cows and quantities of milk they are able to produce and (4) global demand for milk and key ingredients derived from milk. the company cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients derived from raw milk. any disruption in the supply of these key ingredients derived from raw milk could adversely and materially impact the company's infant formula product category. the company's products, and the raw materials used to make those products, generally have limited shelf lives. the company's inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. the company may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs, which may materially and adversely affect the company's results of operations. cargo thefts and/or diversions and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may be experienced from time to time, causing unexpected shortages. 36 if the company is unable to successfully obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances and list 1 chemicals, there is risk of delayed product launches or failure to meet commercial supply obligations. if the company is unable to comply with regulatory requirements for controlled substances and list 1 chemicals, the dea may take regulatory actions, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution, withdrawal of products from the market or other penalties. controlled substances and list 1 chemicals are subject to dea regulation under the controlled substances act. dea quota requirements can limit the amount of controlled substances and list 1 chemicals a manufacturer may produce, the amount of api it may use to manufacture those products and the amount of controlled substance products and list 1 chemicals a packager may package. if the company is unable to successfully obtain the quota amounts, there is the risk of delayed launches or failure to meet commercial supply obligations. in addition, failure to comply with the above laws and requirements can result in enforcement action that could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the dea may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. in certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings. the costs, both financially and in regard to management attention, of combating legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, the company and/or its subsidiaries become involved in lawsuits arising from various commercial matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising/unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product liability, environmental remediation issues and u.s. state or federal regulatory issues. see note 14 of the notes to the company's consolidated financial statements. litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. no assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position or results of operations in the future. similarly, judicial decisions in proceedings to which the company is not a party may result in the setting of legal precedent that could affect the future operation of the company's business. in addition, the company may face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of its operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of its employees. while the company does not have any material remediation liabilities currently outstanding, the company may in the future face liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under, or in its currently or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility that it may have used, without regard to whether the company knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. the actual or alleged presence of, or failure to remediate properly, these substances could have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on the ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. there can be no assurance that environmental liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. the company may also be subject to liability if its products violate or are alleged to violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where such products are distributed or in the event that its products cause or are alleged to cause injury, illness, or death. the successful assertion of product liability claims against the company could result in potentially significant monetary damages and diversion of management resources, and require the company to make significant payments and incur substantial legal expenses. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, the company may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and the company's reputation may suffer. with regard to tysabri , the company's subsidiary elan is a defendant in product liability lawsuits arising out of serious adverse events, including deaths, which occurred in patients taking tysabri . the company expects additional product liability lawsuits related to tysabri usage to be filed. while the company or biogen idec intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits, the company cannot predict how these cases will be resolved. the company and biogen idec will each be responsible for 50% of losses and expenses arising out of any tysabri product liability claims. adverse results in one or more of these cases could result in substantial monetary judgments. 37 court rulings limiting the application of u.s. federal preemption may have an adverse effect on the company's operations as a result of a potential increase in litigation exposure. on november 13, 2013, the fda issued a proposed rule captioned, supplemental applications proposing labeling changes for approved drugs and biologics. pursuant to the proposed rule, the fda is proposing to change existing regulations to expressly provide that generic drug application holders may distribute revised labeling that differs from the corresponding brand drug upon submission of a "changes being effected" ("cbe-0") supplement to fda. fda states that the proposed revisions to its regulations would create parity between branded drug application holders and generic drug application holders with respect to submission of cbe-0 supplements for safety-related labeling changes based on newly acquired information. this proposal is also intended to ensure that generic drug companies actively participate with fda in ensuring the timeliness, accuracy, and completeness of drug safety labeling in accordance with current regulatory requirements. the fda received comments on the proposed rule until march 13, 2014. the fda has not yet issued a final rule on this issue. if this proposed regulatory change is adopted, it may eliminate the preemption of certain failure-to-warn claims, with respect to generic drugs, which could have an adverse impact on the future operating results of the company. third-party patents and other intellectual property rights may limit the company's ability to bring new products to market and may subject the company to potential legal liability. the failure to bring new products to market in a timely manner without incurring legal liability could cause the company to lose market share and its operating results may suffer. the company's ability to bring new products to market is limited by certain patent, trademark and trade dress factors including, but not limited to, the existence of patents protecting brand products for all business segments and the regulatory exclusivity periods awarded on products. the cost and time to develop these prescription and switch products is significantly greater than the rest of the new products that the company seeks to introduce. moreover, the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. these lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. the company may have to defend against charges that it violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. the company's defense against charges that it infringed third-party patents or proprietary rights could require the company to incur substantial expense and to divert significant effort of its technical and management personnel. if the company is found to have infringed on the rights of others, it could lose its right to develop or manufacture some products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. although the parties to patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry have often settled their disputes through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. furthermore, the company cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to it on terms it believes to be acceptable. as a result, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent the company from manufacturing and selling a number of its products. at times, the company may seek approval to market nda or anda products before the expiration of patents for those products, based upon its belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by its products. as a result, the company may face significant patent litigation. depending upon a complex analysis of a variety of legal and commercial factors, the company may, in certain circumstances, elect to market a generic pharmaceutical product while litigation is pending, before any court decision or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending. this is referred to in the pharmaceutical industry as an "at risk" launch. the risk involved in an "at risk" launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to the patent holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits the company makes from selling the generic version of the product. by electing to proceed in this manner, the company could face substantial damages if a final court decision is adverse to the company. in the case where a patent holder is able to prove that the company's infringement was "willful" or "exceptional", under applicable law, the patent holder may be awarded up to three times the amount of its actual damages or the company may be required to pay attorneys' fees. in may 2014, the company launched azelastine hydrochloride nasal spray prior to a court decision. the litigation was settled in june 2014. 38 the success of certain of the company's products depends on the effectiveness of measures it takes to protect its intellectual property rights and patents. the company's success with certain of its products depends, in part, on its ability to protect and defend its intellectual property rights. if the company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. the company has been issued patents covering certain of its products, and has filed, and expects to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the u.s. any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by the company may not provide it with any significant competitive advantages for its products or may even be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors. in addition, such patent rights may not prevent the company's competitors from developing, using or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to its products. the company also relies on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that it seeks to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. if these agreements are breached, the company may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, the company may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. the company is also increasing its research and development efforts in countries where risks of improper disclosure of trade secrets and proprietary technology are higher than in the u.s. and israel. a significant disruption at any of the company's main manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial position and results of operations. the company's u.s. manufacturing operations are concentrated in michigan, minnesota, south carolina, new york, vermont, ohio, and nebraska. the primary non-u.s. operations are in israel. approximately 80% of the company's fiscal 2014 revenues are related to these world-wide manufacturing facilities. a significant disruption resulting from, but not limited to, fire, tornado, storm, flood, cyber attacks, material supply, insufficient quality, or pandemic at any of the company's facilities could impair its ability to develop, produce and/or ship products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial position and operating results. the company is dependent on the services of certain key executive and scientific employees. the failure to attract and retain such employees may have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations. the company's future success will depend in large part upon its ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. key functions for the company include executive managers, operational managers, research and development scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists and sales/marketing personnel. should the company be unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, future operating results may be adversely impacted. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security or reputation damage. the company and its employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. to the extent that the company seeks to use these tools as a means to communicate about its products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to either the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite the company's efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the company's use of social media for such purposes may cause it to be found in violation of them. in addition, because of the availability of social media tools globally, the company's employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of them in ways that may not be aligned with the company's social media strategy, and that may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of the company's employees, clinical trial patients, customers and others. in either case, such uses of social media could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, negative posts or comments about the company, 39 store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or its products in social media could seriously damage its reputation and could adversely affect the price of its securities. to protect itself against various potential liabilities, the company maintains a variety of insurance programs. significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of such insurance could adversely impact the company's financial condition. the company maintains insurance, including property, general and product liability, and directors' and officers' liability to protect itself against potential loss exposures. the company cannot predict whether deductible or retention amounts will increase or whether coverage will be reduced in the future. to the extent that losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on the company's financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained by the company. from time to time, the company may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that it purchases. we are self-insured when insurance is not available, retain certain self-insured retentions and have risk management strategies where insurance is not available at reasonable premium levels. the company, like retailers and other distributors and manufacturers of products, is exposed to product liability claims in the event that, among other things, the use of its products results in injury. there is no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to the company at an economically reasonable cost (or at all for certain specific products) or that the company's insurance will be adequate to cover liability that the company incurs in connection with product liability claims. see note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information related to legal proceedings. risks related to acquisitions although the company only enters into business acquisitions and divestitures that it expects will result in benefits to the company, the company may not realize those benefits because of integration and other challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's stock price or operating results. as part of the company's strategy, it evaluates potential acquisitions in the ordinary course of business, some of which could be and have been material. potential acquisition targets are evaluated on whether they have the capacity to deliver a return on invested capital ("roic") in excess of 200 basis points over the company's weighted average cost of capital ("wacc") within three years. acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities of, the respective parties; the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; the consummation of financing transactions, acquisitions or dispositions and the related effects on the company's business; the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies from an acquisition in the amounts and on the timeframe; problems that could arise from the integration of the respective businesses, including the application of internal control processes to the acquired business; and unanticipated changes in business, industry, market, or general economic conditions that differ from the assumptions underlying the company's rationale for pursuing the transaction. any one or more of these factors could cause the company not to realize the benefits anticipated from a transaction. moreover, any acquisition opportunities the company pursues could materially affect its liquidity and capital resources and may require the company to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. future acquisitions could also result in the company assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than it has assumed in its previous acquisitions. further, acquisition accounting rules require evaluation of certain assumptions, estimates or determination of financial statement classifications, which are completed during the measurement period as defined in current accounting standards. accounting policies of the company and acquisition accounting rules may materially vary from those of the acquired company. any changes in assumptions, estimates or financial statement classifications may be material and have a material adverse effect on the assets, liabilities or future earnings of the new combined consolidated company. 40 in addition, integration activities may place substantial demands on the company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or product could also have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation and business. the company's failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have a negative effect on its operations. integration risks and synergies associated with the company's acquisitions are likely to include, but are not limited to, sales force, sales channel or product portfolio rationalization; manufacturing, distribution and supply chain integration and purchasing savings; quality and regulatory process standardization; and information technology and administration shared service implementations. the dedication of management resources to such integration may detract attention from the company's day-to-day business, and there can be no assurance that there will not be substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts. in addition, a lack of performance of acquisitions could cause financial difficulties. the company also evaluates the performance of all operating business units against an roic threshold. underperforming assets typically have a specific period to improve performance before other strategic alternatives are considered. the company's inability to successfully divest or sell assets in a timely manner could have a negative effect on its operations. in addition, the process of divestitures could cause strains on the ongoing operations of the company. the company's actual financial positions and results of operations may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial data included in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the pro forma financial information contained in note 2 of the notes to consolidated financial statements is presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be an indication of what the company's financial position or results of operations would have been had the acquisitions been completed on the dates indicated. the pro forma financial information has been derived from the historical financial information of perrigo company, elan and the acquired fera and aspen assets, and certain adjustments and assumptions have been made regarding the combined company after giving effect to the transactions. the acquired assets and assumed liabilities have been measured at fair value based on various preliminary estimates using assumptions that the company's management believes are reasonable utilizing information currently available. the process for estimating the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires the use of judgment in determining the appropriate assumptions and estimates. these estimates may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. the pro forma financial data is based on a preliminary purchase price allocation, and the actual allocation of the purchase price will be performed only after all purchase price adjustments have been completed. accordingly, the actual financial condition and results of operations of the combined company may not be consistent with, or evident from, this pro forma financial information. in addition, the assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial information may not prove to be accurate, and other factors may affect the company's financial condition or results of operations. acquisition accounting rules require evaluation of certain assumptions, estimates or determination of financial statement classifications that are completed during the measurement period as defined in current accounting standards. the company's accounting policies and acquisition accounting rules may materially vary from those of its acquired companies. any changes in assumptions, estimates, or financial statement classifications may be material and have a material adverse effect on the assets, liabilities or future earnings of the new combined consolidated company. any potential decline in the company's financial condition or results of operations may cause significant variations in the company's share price. the company's results of operations and cash flow needs could be materially impacted by acquisitions. the company's senior credit facilities, the agreements governing its senior notes and agreements governing its other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit the company's ability to make distributions or other payments to its investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. the company also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. these restrictions could affect the company's ability to operate its business and may limit its ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. if the company does not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in its senior credit facilities, agreements governing its senior notes and agreements governing its other indebtedness, the company could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. any default under the company's senior credit facilities or agreements governing its senior notes or other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under 41 other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. if the company's indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that it would be able to repay or refinance its debt or obtain sufficient new financing. the company has various maturity dates associated with its credit facilities, senior notes and other debt facilities. there is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of its indebtedness. further, there is no assurance that future refinancing or renegotiation of the company's senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt facilities, or additional agreements will not have materially different or more stringent terms. the company has acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject the company to losses and may result in an adverse impact on the company's results of operations. in addition to the $5.8 billion tysabri distribution and license agreement recorded as an intangible asset and described above, the company also acquired investment securities and equity method investments, and recorded $2.3 billion of goodwill in connection with the elan acquisition. all of these assets are subject to impairment, which would adversely impact the company's results of operations. for intangible assets subject to amortization such as tysabri , an impairment analysis is performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value. any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. if the company determines that a loss in the value of its equity method investments is other than temporary, the investment is written down to its estimated fair value. any such losses are recorded to other expense (income), net. evaluations of recoverability are based primarily on projected cash flows. due to uncertainties in the estimation process, actual results could differ from such estimates. additionally, the equity method of accounting requires the company to record a proportionate share of the profits and losses of its equity method investments. if the entities accounted for as equity method investments experience significant losses, the company will have to record a proportionate share of those losses, which could significantly impact the company's results of operations. risks related to doing business internationally a substantial portion of the sources of raw materials and an increasing volume of sales of the company are outside the u.s. additional legislation or regulation concerning importing/exporting may be enacted, which could have an adverse impact on the company's net sales and resulting income. the company imports and exports products and raw materials from/to several jurisdictions around the world. this process involves company subsidiaries and third parties operating in a number of jurisdictions with different customs and import/export regulations. the regulations are subject to change from time to time and the company cannot predict the nature, scope or impact of these changes upon the company's operations. the company is subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering these regulations. to the extent that the company is unable to successfully defend itself against an audit or review, the company may be required to pay assessments, penalties and increased duties, which may, individually or in the aggregate, negatively impact the company's gross margins and operating results. certain of the company's facilities operate in a special purpose subzone established by the u.s. department of commerce foreign trade zone board, which allows the company certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. if the u.s. department of commerce foreign trade zone board were to revoke the subzone designation or limit its use by the company, the company could be subject to increased duties, which may negatively impact the company's gross margins and operating results. 42 conducting business in international markets involves risks and uncertainties such as foreign exchange rate exposure and social, political and economic instability that could lead to increased prices for raw materials, reduced international sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales, which could have an adverse impact on the company's net sales and resulting income. the company sources certain key raw materials and finished products from foreign suppliers in countries that include, but are not limited to, australia, canada, china, denmark, india and mexico. the company's primary markets for the sale of its products outside the u.s. are canada, germany, israel, mexico, the u.k., china and australia. the company may have difficulty in international markets due, for example, to regulatory barriers, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems and problems related to markets with different cultural biases and political systems and strict adherence to all anti-corruption laws including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. violence and crime in mexico could adversely affect the company's manufacturing activities and ability to recruit and retain employees there. sales to customers outside the u.s. and foreign raw material purchases expose the company to a number of risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, possible difficulties in enforcing agreements, longer payment cycles, longer shipping lead-times, inefficient port operations, exchange rate fluctuations, difficulties obtaining export or import licenses, the imposition of withholding or other taxes, economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities or exchange controls. should any of these risks occur, they may have a material adverse impact on the operating results of the company. conditions in israel affect the company's operations and may limit its ability to produce and sell its products. the company has significant manufacturing and research and development facilities in israel. political, economic and military conditions in israel directly affect the company's operations, and the company could be adversely affected by current or future hostilities involving israel or a significant recession or downturn in the economic or financial condition of israel. since the establishment of the state of israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between israel and its neighboring countries. a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for israel in recent years. these hostilities can adversely affect israel's relationship with a number of countries in the region and elsewhere, as well as its relationship with international organizations. while none of the company's facilities in israel have been directly affected by hostile operations, there can be no assurance that a further escalation of hostilities will not impact the company's facilities. currently there is conflict in gaza, and perrigo facilities are within the ranges of the rockets fired at israel from gaza. furthermore, the company's employees in israel include members of the israeli military reserves, some of whom have been called up for active duty. if a significant number of the company's employees in israel are called up for active duty in the military, the company's operations in israel may be materially adversely affected. finally, travel, including fda travel, has been disrupted or halted during the recent hostilities. escalations of hostilities have disruptive effects on israel's economy, and any international economic sanctions against israel could further harm israel's economy. these economic developments could have an adverse effect on the company's israel pharmaceutical and diagnostic products business. furthermore, certain parties with whom the company does business may decline to travel to israel, which would force the company to make alternative arrangements where necessary. the united states department of state has at times issued an advisory regarding travel to various sections of israel. as a result of the state department's advisories, the fda has at various times curtailed or prohibited its inspectors from traveling to israel to inspect the facilities of israeli companies, and should this occur with respect to the company's israeli facilities, the fda could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities. although it has not yet occurred, the political and security situation in israel may result in certain parties with whom the company has contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments pursuant to force majeure provisions of those contracts. the company could experience disruption of its manufacturing and research and development facilities due to terrorist acts or military actions. if terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to the company's facilities, business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, the company would need to obtain prior fda approval for a change in manufacturing site. the company's insurance may not 43 adequately compensate it for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by the company could have a material adverse effect on its business. some neighboring countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of israeli firms and others doing business with israel or with israeli companies. the company is also precluded from marketing its products to certain of these countries due to u.s. and israeli regulatory restrictions. because an immaterial amount of the company's revenue is currently derived from sales to these countries, the company believes that the boycott has not had a material adverse effect on its current operations. however, continuation or extension of the boycott or implementation of additional restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards israel or israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of the company's business. risks related to the company's liquidity and capital resources the company's business requires continuous capital investments and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. in some instances, the company may determine to issue additional shares of capital stock in order to meet its capital needs, which would dilute existing shareholders' ownership. the company maintains a broad product line to function as a primary supplier for its customers. capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. estimation of future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. if the company fails to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, it may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions. the company anticipates that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowings available under its credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. the company has historically evaluated acquisition opportunities and anticipates that acquisition opportunities will continue to be identified and evaluated in the future. the historical growth of sales and profits has been positively influenced by acquisitions. there is no assurance that future sales and profits will, or will not, be impacted by acquisition activities. if the company decides to seek additional capital through the issuance of additional ordinary shares, existing shareholders' ownership may be diluted. changes in the company's credit ratings may limit its access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs. the company has received ratings from moody's investor service and standard and poor's rating services. any changes or downgrades to the company's credit ratings and outlook could negatively impact the company's access to capital markets and the perception of the company's credit risk by lenders and other third parties. the company's credit ratings are based upon information furnished by the company or obtained by a rating agency from its own sources and are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by one or more rating agencies at any time. rating agencies may review the ratings assigned to the company due to developments that are beyond the company's control, including the introduction of new standards requiring the agencies to re-assess rating practices and methodologies. any downgrade to the ratings of the company's debt securities may result in higher interest costs for certain of the company's credit facilities and other debt financings, and could result in higher interest costs on future financings. further, downgrades may impact the company's ability to obtain adequate financing, including via trade payables with vendors. customers' inclination to purchase goods from the company may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of the company's credit ratings. customer channel consolidation, including retailers and buyers, can increase the company's credit risk, which may adversely affect the company's financial position or results of operations. retailer and buyer consolidation continues to increase the size of the company's customers. if a large customer should encounter financial difficulties, the company's exposure with respect to uncollectible receivables 44 and unusable inventory, as well as the potential loss of future sales, could result in a material adverse impact on the company's financial position or results of operations. the company's results are impacted by global economic conditions; weaknesses or downturns in the global economy could adversely impact the company's liquidity and financial condition. the company's business is impacted by economic conditions in the u.s. and in other countries in which the company produces and markets its products. slower economic growth, geopolitical issues, sovereign debt issues, and the state of global real estate markets may contribute to increased market volatility. although economic conditions have improved over the last few years, there continues to be uncertainty as to whether this improvement is sustainable. continued market volatility could adversely affect the company's stock price, liquidity and overall financial condition. the company's customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if the current economic conditions worsen. although the company actively reviews the credit worthiness of its customers and suppliers, the company cannot fully predict to what extent its customers and suppliers may be negatively impacted and thus to what extent the company's operations would be affected. the company invests cash and cash equivalents primarily in demand deposits and other short-term instruments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase. the company typically maintains a balance between objectives of safety of principal, liquidity and return by investing primarily in u.s., federal, state and local government obligations, direct obligations of local sovereign governments and in bank obligations of the company's credit banks meeting a minimum third-party credit rating standard. the value of the company's assets may be adversely affected if economic conditions worsen. although the company's lenders have made commitments to make funds available to the company in a timely fashion, if economic conditions worsen or new information becomes publicly available impacting these lenders' credit ratings or capital ratios, the company's lenders may be unable or unwilling to lend money pursuant to the company's existing credit facilities. in addition, if the company determines that it is appropriate or necessary to raise capital in the future, the cost of raising funds through the debt or equity markets may be more expensive or those markets may be unavailable. if the company is unable to use its existing credit facilities or raise funds through debt or equity markets, the company's liquidity or ability to follow its key growth strategies could be materially and adversely affected. additionally, decreases in personal incomes may have caused consumers to look for and purchase lower priced products, such as generic and store brand products manufactured by the company, as an alternative to higher priced brand-name products. to the extent that this trend has occurred, the company's sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and if consumers were enticed to go back to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products. tax-related risks the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs") may not agree with the conclusion that the company is treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. although the company is incorporated in ireland, the irs may assert that it should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("code"). for u.s. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. because the company is an irish incorporated entity, it would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. for the company to be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the code, either (i) the former stockholders of perrigo company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of the company's stock by reason of holding shares in perrigo company (the "ownership test") or (ii) the company must have substantial business activities in ireland after the elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of the company's expanded affiliated group). as of the acquisition date, perrigo company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of the shares in the company. 45 as a result, the company believes that under current law, it should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, the company cannot assure that the irs will agree with the position that the ownership test is satisfied. there is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test. section 7874 of the code likely will limit the company's and its u.s. affiliates' ability to utilize their u.s. tax attributes to offset certain u.s. taxable income, if any, generated by the elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the elan acquisition. following the acquisition of a u.s. corporation by a foreign corporation, section 7874 of the code can limit the ability of the acquired u.s. corporation and its u.s. affiliates to utilize u.s. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset u.s. taxable income resulting from certain transactions. based on the limited guidance available, the company currently expects this limitation will apply, and as a result, the company currently does not expect that it or its u.s. affiliates will be able to utilize their u.s. tax attributes to offset their u.s. taxable income, if any, resulting from certain specified taxable transactions. changes in tax laws or income tax rates could have a material adverse effect on the company's results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. the company believes that under current law, it should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the code, or the irs treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other irs guidance, could adversely affect the company's status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to the company, perrigo company, and/or their respective stockholders, shareholders and affiliates. in addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have an adverse effect on the company. moreover, the office of the revenue commissioners, u.s. congress, the organisation for economic co-operation and development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where the company and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of "base erosion and profit shifting", where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. as a result, the tax laws in the u.s. and other countries in which the company and its affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect the company. a number of factors may adversely impact the company's future effective tax rates, such as income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which the company's profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of the company's deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to the company's interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (e.g., proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform); changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings with respect to which the company has not previously provided for u.s. taxes. a change in the company's effective tax rate due to any of these factors may adversely impact the company's future results from operations. also, changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on the company's ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that we prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results and/or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. in addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, and/or interest assessments. 46 the government programs in israel in which the company participates and the tax benefits the company receives require the company to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase the company's costs and tax expenses. the company has received grants for research and development from the office of the chief scientist in israel's ministry of industry and trade. to continue to be eligible for these grants, the company's development projects must be approved by the chief scientist on a case-by-case basis. if the company's development projects are not approved by the chief scientist, the company will not receive grants to fund these projects, which would increase research and development costs. the receipt of such grants subjects the company to certain restrictions and pre-approval requirements, which may be conditioned on additional royalty payments with rights to transfer intellectual property and/or production abroad. the company also receives tax benefits, in particular exemptions and reductions, as a result of the privileged enterprise status of certain existing operations in israel. to be eligible for these tax benefits, the company must maintain its privileged enterprise status by meeting conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets located in specific regions in israel and investing additional equity in itself and its israeli subsidiaries and by meeting projections provided to the regulatory agencies. if the company fails to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled, and the company could be required to refund the tax benefits already received. these tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. if such benefits are reduced or eliminated in the future, the company's results of operations will be adversely impacted. in fiscal 2011, israel enacted new tax legislation that reduced the effective tax rate to 10% for 2011 and 2012, 7% for 2013 and 2014, and 6% thereafter for certain qualifying entities that elect to be taxed under the new legislation. this legislation was rescinded as announced in the official gazette on august 5, 2013. the new legislation enacted a 9% rate for certain qualifying entities that elect to be taxed under the new legislation. the company has two entities that had previously elected the new tax legislation for years after fiscal 2011. therefore, the above risk is only applicable for the company for fiscal year 2011 as statutes remain open for this year. risks related to ownership of the company's ordinary shares the company is incorporated in ireland, and irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. the company's shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies acts 1963-2013 (the act). the act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. for example, under irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. as a result, shareholders of irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. in addition, depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax and capital acquisitions tax. the company is incorporated in ireland, and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against the company or certain of the company's officers and directors. the company is incorporated in ireland and a substantial portion of assets are located in jurisdictions outside the u.s. in addition, some of the officers and directors reside outside the u.s., and some or all of their respective assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside of the u.s. therefore, it may be difficult for investors to enforce against the company any judgments of u.s. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws. there is no treaty between ireland and the u.s. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in ireland, the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and be for a final and conclusive sum. an irish court may also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. further, an irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. judgments of u.s. courts of 47 liabilities predicated upon u.s. federal securities laws may not be enforced by irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in ireland. in certain limited circumstances, dividends paid by the company may be subject to irish dividend withholding tax. in certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends, if any, paid on perrigo ordinary shares. a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the u.s. and shareholders resident in certain other countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax (the "relevant territories"). shareholders resident in the u.s. that hold their shares through the depository trust company ("dtc") will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the u.s. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by perrigo). all u.s. resident shareholders in the company that hold their shares outside of dtc and shareholders resident in other relevant territories will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the beneficial owners of such shares have furnished completed and valid dividend withholding tax forms and an irs form 6166, as appropriate, to the company's transfer agent or their brokers (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to the company's transfer agent). however, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, that could adversely affect the company's share price. dividends received by irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to irish income tax. most irish tax resident or ordinarily resident shareholders (other than irish resident companies that have completed the appropriate dividend withholding tax ("dwt" forms)) will be subject to dwt in respect of dividends received from the company. shareholders that are residents of ireland, but are entitled to received dividends without dwt, must complete the appropriate dwt forms and provide them to their brokers before the record date for the dividend, or to the company's transfer agent at least seven business days before the record date for the dividend. shareholders who are not resident nor ordinarily resident in ireland but who are not entitled to an exemption from irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to irish income tax on those dividends which suffer dividend withholding tax. perrigo ordinary shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to irish capital acquisitions tax. irish capital acquisitions tax ("cat") could apply to a gift or inheritance of perrigo ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. this is because perrigo ordinary shares will be regarded as property situated in ireland. the person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for cat. gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from cat. children have a tax-free threshold of 225,000 in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents. risks related to the company's corporate structure a number of factors may limit the company's ability to pay dividends in the future. the company recently created distributable reserves by means of a reduction of share capital that was approved by the shareholders of the company and the irish high court. in the event the company chooses to seek to create further distributable reserves by means of a capital reduction, this will also require irish high court approval and shareholder approval. the company is not aware of any reason why the irish high court would not approve the further creation of additional distributable reserves by means of a further capital reduction; however the issuance of the required order is a matter for the discretion of the irish high court. there also can be no guarantee that shareholder approval will be obtained. the company's ability to pay dividends will be limited by the availability of distributable reserves. although distributable reserves can be created by means of a reduction in capital, the ongoing availability of distributable reserves will depend on whether the company has, on an individual entity basis, "profits available for 48 distribution" (within the meaning of the irish companies acts); however, the future generation of additional distributable reserves cannot be guaranteed. the company is a holding company that does not expect to conduct any business operations of its own. as a result, the company will be dependent on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from its subsidiaries in order to pay dividends to its shareholders. any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of the company's board of directors, subject to compliance with applicable laws (including the irish companies acts) and covenants under current or future credit facilities, which may restrict or limit the company's ability to pay dividends. the determination also will depend on the company's financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that the company's board of directors may deem relevant. irish shareholder voting requirements may limit the company's flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. under irish law, the authorized share capital of the company can be increased by an ordinary resolution of its shareholders, and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by the articles of association of the company or by an ordinary resolution of the company's shareholders. additionally, subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights by way of special resolution with respect to any particular allotment of shares. accordingly, the company's articles of association contain, as permitted by irish company law, a provision authorizing the board to issue new shares for cash without offering preemption rights. the authorization of the directors to issue shares and the authorization of the waiver of the statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and the company cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit the company's ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of the company's securities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risks due to changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. interest rate risk the company is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of interest income earned on its investment of cash on hand and interest expense on borrowings used to finance acquisitions and working capital requirements. the company enters into certain derivative financial instruments, when available on a cost-effective basis, to hedge its underlying economic exposure, related to the management of interest rate risk. see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the company's derivative and hedging activities. because of the use of certain derivative financial instruments and the significant amount of fixed rate debt, the company believes that a fluctuation in interest rates in the near future will not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements. these instruments are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets. derivative financial instruments are not used for speculative purposes. gains and losses on hedging transactions are offset by gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged. foreign exchange risk the company has operations in the u.s., u.k., israel, mexico and australia. these operations transact business in their local currency and foreign currencies, thereby creating exposures to changes in exchange rates. a large portion of the sales of the company's israeli operations is in foreign currencies, primarily u.s. dollars and euros, while these operations incur costs in their local currency. further, a portion of biogen idec's global sales of tysabri is denominated in local currencies creating exposures to changes in exchange rates and thereby impacting the amount of royalties received by the company. in addition, the company's u.s. operations continue to expand its export business, primarily in canada, china and europe, and are subject to fluctuations in the respective currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. due to sales and cost structures, certain segments experience a negative impact as a result of the changes in exchange rates while other segments experience a positive impact related to foreign currency exchange. the company estimates an additional ten percent devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to the other foreign currencies it transacts business in would have increased operating income of its non-u.s. operating units by approximately $4.5 million for fiscal 2014 . this sensitivity analysis has inherent limitations. the analysis disregards the possibility that rates of multiple foreign currencies will not always move in the same direction relative to the value of the u.s. dollar over time and does not account for foreign exchange forward contracts that the company enters into to mitigate fluctuations in foreign currencies. in addition, the company enters into certain purchase commitments for materials which, although denominated in u.s. dollars, are linked to foreign currency valuations. these commitments generally contain a range for which the price of materials may fluctuate over time given the value of a foreign currency. the translation of the assets and liabilities of the company's non-u.s. operations is made using their foreign exchange rates as of the end of the year. translation adjustments are not included in determining net income but are disclosed in accumulated other comprehensive income within shareholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheets until a sale or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the international subsidiary takes place. in certain markets, the company could recognize a significant gain or loss related to unrealized cumulative translation adjustments if it were to exit the market and liquidate its net investment. as of june 28, 2014 , the cumulative net currency translation adjustments increased shareholders' equity by $164.4 million . foreign currency transaction gains and losses arise from monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than an operating unit's functional currency. for fiscal 2014 , net transaction gains were $2.2 million . the company monitors and strives to manage risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. exposures that cannot be naturally offset within a local entity to an immaterial amount are often hedged with foreign currency 77 derivatives or netted with offsetting exposures at other entities. see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the company's derivative and hedging activities. the company cannot predict future changes in foreign currency exposure. unfavorable fluctuations could adversely impact earnings. 78risk factors 22 risk factors - risks related to operations . our segments in conjunction with the omega acquisition, we changed our reporting segments in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015 to better align with our new organizational structure. these organizational changes were made to optimize our structure to better serve our customers and to reflect the way in which our chief operating decision maker reviews our operating results. following this change, our reporting segments are as follows: consumer healthcare ( "chc" ), which includes our former consumer healthcare segment, former nutritionals segment, and former israel pharmaceuticals and diagnostics business, which was previously reported in our other segment; branded consumer healthcare ( "bch" ), which consists of the newly acquired omega business; prescription pharmaceuticals ( " rx pharmaceuticals " ), which continues to include the rx pharmaceuticals business; and specialty sciences , which is comprised primarily of assets focused on the treatment of multiple sclerosis (tysabri ). in addition, we have an other reporting segment that consists of our former active pharmaceutical ingredients ("api") segment, which does not meet the quantitative threshold required to be a separately reportable segment. all historical segment information has been reclassified to conform to this new reporting segment presentation. financial information related to our business segments and geographic locations can be found in item 8. note 17 . consumer healthcare overview the chc segment is focused primarily on the sale of otc store brand products, including cough, cold, and allergy products, analgesics, gastrointestinal products, smoking cessation products, infant formula and foods, vitamins, supplements, animal health products, and diagnostic products. we are a market leader in many geographies, including the u.s., u.k., and mexico, and we are developing a market leadership position in australia. we are the leader in otc store brands, and market share of otc store brand products has increased in recent years as retailer efforts to promote their own label programs have resulted in greater consumer awareness of the quality and value of store brand otc products. in fiscal year 2015, our chc segment contributed 60% to consolidated net sales. the chc segment develops, manufactures, and markets products that are comparable in quality and effectiveness to national brands. store brand products must meet the same u.s. food and drug administration 3 perrigo company plc - item 1 chc ("fda") requirements as national brands. in most instances, our product packaging is designed to attract consumers and to invite and reinforce comparison to national brand products, which communicates store brand value to consumers. the cost of store brand products to retailers is significantly lower than that of comparable nationally advertised brand-name products. generally, retailers' dollar profit per unit of store brand product is greater than the dollar profit per unit of the comparable national brand product. the retailer, therefore, can price a store brand product below the competing national brand product and realize a greater profit margin. the consumer benefits by receiving a high quality product at a price below the comparable national brand product. as a result, our business model results in consumers saving money on their healthcare spending. we are dedicated to being the leader in developing and marketing new store brand products and have a research and development ("r&amp;d") staff that we believe is one of the most experienced in the industry at developing products comparable in formulation and quality to national brand products. our r&amp;d team also responds to changes in existing national brand products by reformulating existing products. for example, in the otc pharmaceutical market, certain new products are the result of changes in product status from "prescription only" ("rx") to otc. these rx-to-otc switches require fda approval through a process initiated by the drug innovator. the drug innovator usually begins the process by filing a new drug application ("nda"), which is often followed by filing an abbreviated new drug application ("anda"). new drugs are also marketed through the fda's otc monograph process, which allows for the production of drugs that are generally recognized as safe and effective without pre-market approval. the chc segment also develops, manufactures, and distributes certain branded products when the strategy is synergistic with our store brand business. branded products include the good sense , sergeant's , sentry , herron , bright beginnings , and petarmor brands. we manufacture our products at our plants in the u.s., u.k., mexico, israel, and australia, and we source our remaining needs from third parties. we rely on both internal r&amp;d and strategic product development agreements with outside sources to develop new products. in addition, in order to maximize both our capacity and sales of proprietary formulas, we engage in contract manufacturing, which involves producing unique anda and monograph products through partnerships with major pharmaceutical and direct-to-consumer companies. recent developments in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, we acquired gelcaps exportadora de mexico, s.a. de c.v. ("gelcaps"), the mexican operations of durham, north carolina-based patheon inc. for $35.8 million in cash, which strengthened our supply chain and added softgel manufacturing technology capabilities to our business. the acquisition has broadened our presence, product portfolio, and customer network and has solidified our store brand leadership position in mexico. products our chc segment offers products in the following categories: product category description analgesics pain relievers and fever reducers cough/cold/allergy/sinus cough, cold, allergy, and sinus products gastrointestinal antacids, anti-diarrheal, and anti-heartburn products infant nutritionals infant formula and food products smoking cessation gums, lozenges, and other products designed to help users quit smoking animal health pet health and wellness products vms vitamins, minerals, and dietary supplements other feminine hygiene, diabetes care, dermatological care, diagnostic products, and other miscellaneous healthcare products 4 perrigo company plc - item 1 chc the chart below reflects net sales by product category in the chc segment for fiscal year 2015. the chc segment currently markets over 4,900 store brand and other products, with over 17,800 stock-keeping units ("skus"). we consider every different combination of package size, flavor, formulation, strength and dosage form (tablet, liquid, softgel, etc.) of a given item as a separate "product." we launched a number of new chc products in fiscal year 2015 , most notably the generic versions of ensure , ensure plus, and frontline plus. a chc product is considered new if it was added to our product lines or sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured. net sales related to new chc products totaled $155.2 million , $83.4 million , and $71.6 million for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. we, on our own or in conjunction with partners, received final approval from global health authorities for 156 new products within the chc segment in fiscal year 2015 , and as of june 27, 2015 , we had 123 new product applications pending approval. sales and marketing our customers include major global, national, and regional retail drug, supermarket, and mass merchandise chains such as walmart, cvs, walgreens, kroger, target, dollar general, rite aid, sam's club, costco, petco, petsmart, boots (u.k.), tesco (u.k.), asda (u.k.), woolworth (australia), coles (australia), and major wholesalers, including mckesson, cardinal health, and amerisourcebergen. we seek to establish customer loyalty through superior customer service by providing a comprehensive assortment of high-quality, value priced products; timely processing, shipment and delivery of orders; assistance in managing customer inventories; and support in managing and building the customer's store brand business. the chc segment employs its own sales force to service larger customers, and it uses industry brokers for other retailers. field sales employees, with support from marketing and customer service, are assigned to specific customers in order to work most effectively with the customer. they assist customers by developing customized brand management and in-store marketing programs for customers' store brand products and optimize communication of customers' needs to the rest of the company. the primary objective of this store brand management approach is to enable our customers, retailers and wholesalers to increase sales of their own store brand products by communicating store brand quality and value to the consumer and by inviting comparison to national brand products. our sales and marketing personnel assist 5 perrigo company plc - item 1 chc customers in the development and introduction of new store brand products and in the promotion of customers' existing store brand products by providing market information; establishing individualized promotions and marketing programs, which may include floor displays, bonus sizes, coupons, rebates, store signs, and promotional packs; and by performing consumer research. in contrast with national brand manufacturers, which incur considerable advertising and marketing expenditures targeted directly to the end user or consumer, the chc segment's primary marketing efforts are channeled through retailers and wholesalers and reach the consumer through our customers' in-store marketing programs and through our digital media programs. because the retail profit margin for store brand products is generally higher than for national brand products, retailers and wholesalers often commit funds for additional promotions. our animal health category, which has a greater emphasis on value-branded products, promotes product awareness through direct-to-consumer advertising including television commercials, on-line advertising, in-store display vehicles, and social media. in addition to in-store marketing programs, our infant formula category markets directly to consumers and healthcare professionals. competition the markets for otc pharmaceuticals, nutritional products, and infant formula are highly competitive. our primary competitors include manufacturers, such as lnk international, inc., pl developments, and dr. reddy's labs, and brand-name pharmaceutical and consumer product companies such as johnson &amp; johnson, pfizer, bayer ag, eli lilly, nestle s.a. (gerber), abbott nutrition, and mead johnson nutrition co. the competition is highly fragmented in terms of geographic market coverage and product categories, such that a competitor generally does not compete across all product lines. however, some competitors do have larger sales volumes in certain of our categories. additionally, national brand companies tend to have more resources committed to marketing their products and could in the future manufacture store brands of their products at lower prices than their national brand products. competition is based on a variety of factors, including price, quality, assortment of products, customer service, marketing support, and approvals for new products. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition. branded consumer healthcare overview we established the bch segment in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, and it is comprised primarily of branded otc sales attributable to omega. the bch segment develops, manufactures, markets, and distributes some of europe's most well-known otc brands in the natural health and vitamins, minerals and supplements ("vms"), cough, cold and allergy, personal care and derma-therapeutics, lifestyle, and anti-parasite categories. in addition, the segment leverages its broad regulatory, sales, and distribution infrastructure to in-license and sell non-owned brands and generic pharmaceutical products. the bch segment distributes these products through an extensive network of pharmacies in 36 countries, primarily in europe. many bch products are top sellers in the markets in which they compete. in fiscal year 2015, our bch segment contributed 9% to consolidated net sales. in the future, we expect bch to represent a larger portion of our consolidated net sales as fiscal year 2015 only included three months of omega operations. through continued investment in r&amp;d and new technologies, the bch segment strives to offer high-quality products that meet consumers' needs. the combination of internal r&amp;d, in-licensing, acquisitions, and partnerships support the product pipeline, both in terms of brand expansion and product improvement. currently, most r&amp;d is performed by external partners with oversight by our teams. the segment has seven plants dedicated to manufacturing certain of its products, but over 70% of its production is outsourced to third parties. we plan to bring some of the segment's r&amp;d and manufacturing in-house as we integrate omega into perrigo operations. unlike the chc segment, which develops and markets store brand products, the bch segment focuses on building brands. in many non-u.s. markets brand marketing strategy can be more effective due to regulatory constraints, the absence of large mass merchandisers or pharmacy chains, and developing acceptance of store brand products. while the bch segment sells products from over 300 brands both on its own and through third 6 perrigo company plc - item 1 branded chc parties, it focuses its resources on its "top 20 brands", which are selected on the basis of their growth potential in the otc market. additional resources are allocated to these brands to build strong positions in the largest, most highly profitable categories in the otc market, such as analgesics, cough, cold and allergy, and vms, while maintaining leadership in smaller branded categories, such as head lice and wart treatments. recent developments subsequent to year end, we agreed to acquire naturwohl, with its leading german dietary supplement brand, yokebe, for 130.0 million in cash. the acquisition will build on the segment's leading otc product portfolio and european commercial infrastructure. the transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of calendar year 2015. in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to acquire a portfolio of established otc brands from gsk for 200.0 million in cash. the acquisition of this portfolio will build upon the global platform we established through the omega acquisition and will help us expand our market share in the european otc market. the portfolio includes smoking cessation products, cold and flu treatments, pain relief products, nasal decongestants, and cold sore management products sold primarily in europe. the acquisition is expected to close in the third quarter of calendar year 2015. products below are the categories in which the bch segment competes and some of the top brands in each category. product category description top brands natural health and vms vitamins, minerals, supplements, and various other natural remedies. davitamon /etixx , biover /abtei , granufink /bional cough, cold, and allergy products that address respiratory symptoms, including traditional medications and alternative treatments such as aromatherapy and homeopathic solutions. bittner /aflubin , prevalin /beconase , physiomer /libenar , phytosun , bronchenolo personal care and derma-therapeutics products for the face and body, including sun care products, baby-specific products, feminine hygiene products, and solutions for various skin conditions and allergies such as eczema, psoriasis and rosacea. bodysol/galenco , aco, lactacyd , dermalex (repair), wartner lifestyle weight management, pregnancy and fertility kits, pain relief, sleep management, and eye care. xls (medical) , predictor , solpadeine /antigrippine , silence , nytol anti-parasite products focused on the elimination of parasites in both humans and pets including lice treatment and insect repellent. paranix , jungle formula , paravet /cl ment-th kan the bch segment currently markets over 5,200 products, with over 7,400 skus. we consider every different combination of package size, flavor, formulation, strength, and dosage form (tablet, liquid, softgel, etc.) of an item as a separate "product." certain brands are considered "combination brands", as they are marketed under different names depending on the market in which they are sold. for these combination brands, we select the most appropriate products from each product line for the country where they will be marketed, then adopt the brand name that best matches local consumer preference. the segment has recently launched a number of new products, including a new aco skin care line in the nordic region, xls (medical) max strength in key markets, and a new dual action cough line in six new markets. over the next six months, the bch segment plans to roll out a men's health vitamins line in the u.k. in partnership with men's health magazine, the granufink urological product line beginning in the u.k. under the brand name urostemol, and create a new self-care category in collaboration with the pharmacy chain boots. at june 27, 2015, the bch segment had more than 50 strategic new product developments in five product categories, with each of its top 20 brands having a five-year innovation master plan. 7 perrigo company plc - item 1 branded chc sales and marketing our customers include pharmacies, drug, and grocery stores located primarily in europe, including boots, asda, tesco, dm, rossmann, etos, and kruidvat. the bch segment sells its products through an established pharmacy sales force and an extensive network of pharmacists. our sales representatives visit pharmacists daily, ensuring strong in-store visibility of our brands and facilitating pharmacist education programs. our sales, marketing, and regulatory teams use training/merchandising teams to work in conjunction with base sales representatives to identify, implement, and defend healthcare claims for key products. we attract and retain key talent personnel from leading otc, fast moving consumer goods ("fmcg"), and rx companies to build strong local teams throughout the countries in which the bch segment operates. while bch products have a higher average gross margin than products sold by the chc segment, selling and administrative expenses are significantly higher for our bch products due to the sales force mentioned above, as well as targeted advertising and promotional spending to enhance brand equity. key marketing communication tools include tv commercials, consumer leaflets, product websites, and targeted promotional campaigns. competition the competitive landscape of the european otc market is highly fragmented, as local companies often hold leadership positions in individual product segments in particular countries. as a result, the relevant competition in each of the bch segment's markets is mostly local, with reckitt benckiser, boehringer ingelheim, novartis, and johnson &amp; johnson as additional regional competitors. we believe our key advantage lies in our unique combination of best practices in sales, marketing, and product development from fmcg and otc/rx, while embracing the pharmacy channel to drive self-care. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition. prescription pharmaceuticals overview the rx pharmaceuticals segment develops, manufactures, and markets a portfolio of generic and specialty pharmaceutical prescription drugs primarily for the u.s. and u.k. markets. we define this portfolio as predominantly "extended topical" and "specialty" as it encompasses a broad array of topical dosage forms such as creams, ointments, lotions, gels, shampoos, foams, suppositories, sprays, liquids, suspensions, solutions, and powders. the portfolio also includes select controlled substances, injectables, hormones, women's health products, oral solid dosage forms, and oral liquid formulations. in fiscal year 2015, rx pharmaceuticals contributed 22% to consolidated net sales. our current development areas include other delivery systems such as oral liquids, metered dose inhalers, injectables, and transdermal products, some of which we are developing with third parties. our other areas of expertise include our production capabilities for controlled substance and hormonal products. in the u.s., r&amp;d efforts focus on complex formulations, many of which require costly clinical endpoint trials. in the u.k., r&amp;d focuses on oral liquid formulations for the branded rx products for which liquid formulations are not available. we manufacture our topical, specialty, and oral products in the u.s., israel, and u.k., and also source from various fda-inspected third parties. rx pharmaceuticals are manufactured, labeled, and packaged in facilities that comply with strict regulatory standards and meet customers' stringent requirements. in addition, the rx pharmaceuticals segment offers otc products through the prescription channel (referred to as "orx ", these products are marketed using the perrigo name). orx products are otc products that are available for pharmacy fulfillment and healthcare reimbursement when prescribed by a physician. we offer numerous orx products that are reimbursable through many health plans and the u.s. medicaid and medicare programs. 8 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx pharmaceuticals we actively collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies to develop, manufacture, and market certain products or groups of products. these types of agreements are common in the pharmaceutical industry. we may choose to enter into these types of agreements to, among other things, leverage our or our collaborators' scientific r&amp;d expertise or utilize our extensive marketing and distribution resources. see item 8. note 1 for more information regarding our method for recognizing revenue and expenses related to collaboration agreements, as well as item 8. note 15 for more information regarding our current collaboration agreements. recent developments during fiscal year 2015 we acquired a portfolio of products from lumara health, inc. ("lumara"), a privately-held, chesterfield, missouri-based specialty pharmaceutical company, for cash consideration of $83.0 million . this acquisition further expanded our women's healthcare product offerings. lumara products are marketed and sold as branded products by a small specialty sales force. products the rx pharmaceuticals segment currently markets approximately 800 generic prescription and orx products with more than 1,400 skus. a sku for a generic prescription product is a unique combination of the product's package size, ingredient strength and dosage form (tablet, syrup, cream, foam, ointment, gel, etc.). we generally hold the anda or product application for the drugs that we manufacture or enter into an arrangement with the application holder for the manufacture and/or marketing of certain products. listed below are some of the generic prescription products, including authorized generic and orx products, that we manufacture and/or distribute: generic name (1) comparative brand-name drug adapalene cream differin bacitracin ophthalmic ointment n/a clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel duac clobetasol foam, lotion and shampoo olux , olux-e , clobex desonide cream, ointment desonate , tridesilon halobetasol ointment and cream ultravate mupirocin ointment bactroban nystatin topical powder mycostatin permethrin cream elimite testosterone cypionate injection depo , testosterone triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray nasacort aq testosterone 1% gel (2) androgel triamcinolone cream/ointment (2) triderm/kenalog tacrolimus (2) protopic clobetasol spray (2) clobex hydrocorisone suppositories hydrocorisone suppositories dihydroergotamine injection d.h.e. 45 clindamycin foam evoclin (1) contains the same active ingredients present in the same dosage form as the comparable brand-name drug (2) new product launched in fiscal year 2015 net sales related to new products were approximately $119.0 million , $106.4 million , and $48.6 million for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. an rx pharmaceutical product is considered new if it was added to our product lines or sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured. in fiscal year 2015 , we, on our own or in collaboration with partners, received final approval from the fda for 24 rx drug applications. as of june 27, 2015 , we, on our own or in collaboration with partners, had 10 rx drug applications pending approval with the fda. 9 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx pharmaceuticals sales and marketing our customers include major wholesalers, including cardinal health, mckesson, and amerisourcebergen; national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, including walgreens, walmart, cvs, rite aid, kroger, and safeway; hospitals; and pharmacies. orx products are sold to the consumer through the pharmacy counter of predominantly the same retail outlets as our otc pharmaceutical and nutritional products. in addition, we have a small specialty sales force consisting of representatives who visit healthcare professionals to educate them on the unique clinical characteristics and benefits of our branded products. we plan to continue to grow this sales force in the near future. competition the market for rx pharmaceuticals is subject to intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies launching their own generic version of their branded products (known as an authorized generics), manufacturers of branded drug products that continue to produce those products after patent expirations, and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. among our generic drug manufacturer competitors are actavis plc, apotex corp., glenmark generics inc., impax laboratories, inc., mylan, prasco, llc, sandoz, sun pharmaceuticals, taro pharmaceuticals, teva pharmaceutical industries ltd., triax pharmaceuticals, llc, and zydus pharmaceuticals, inc. we believe that one of our primary competitive advantages is our ability to introduce difficult to develop and/or manufacture topical and other specialty generic versions to brand-name drug products. generally, these products are exposed to less competition due to the relatively longer and more expensive development, clinical trial, and approval processes. in addition, we believe we have a favorable competitive position due primarily to our efficient distribution systems, topical production economies of scale, customer service, and overall reputation. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for more information and risks associated with competition. specialty sciences overview the specialty sciences segment is comprised primarily of assets focused on the treatment of multiple sclerosis, specifically in connection with the drug tysabri . we are entitled to royalty payments from biogen idec inc. ("biogen") based on its tysabri sales in all indications and geographies. we received royalties of 12% on worldwide biogen sales of tysabri from december 18, 2013 through april 30, 2014. beginning on may 1, 2014 we received, and going forward we will receive, royalties of 18% on annual worldwide biogen sales of tysabri up to $2.0 billion and 25% on sales above $2.0 billion . in fiscal year 2015, specialty sciences contributed 7% to consolidated net sales. competition tysabri is a complex biological product, patent protected through 2024, and is administered under a strict risk and evaluation mitigation strategy ("rems") program. in the event that the patent is invalidated or is infringed upon or if a biosimilar is introduced, the financial performance of our specialty sciences segment would be materially adversely affected. tysabri competes with many companies that are working to develop successful new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis. if any of these competing products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience, or safety, future sales of tysabri could be limited. however, the competition may be limited in its product development as tysabri is administered under an fda-approved rems. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for related risks. 10 perrigo company plc - item 1 other other overview we have an other segment that is comprised of api products, which does not meet the quantitative threshold required to be a separately reportable segment. we develop, manufacture, and market api products, which are used worldwide by both generic and branded pharmaceutical companies. certain of these ingredients are used in our own pharmaceutical products. the manufacturing of api occurs primarily in india and israel. api development is focused on the synthesis of less common molecules for the u.s., european, and other global markets. we commercialize api that are critical to our pharmaceutical customers' existing portfolios and future product launches, working closely with these customers on development processes. we are also focusing manufacturing and development activities on the synthesis of molecules for use in our own otc and rx pipeline products. this vertical integration may enable us to be more competitive in the pricing of our product lines. because our api customers depend on high-quality supply and regulatory support, we focus on rigorous quality assurance, quality control, and regulatory compliance as part of our strategic positioning. our quality system is designed to comply with the regulatory requirements of the fda, the european medicines agency ("ema"), and other regulatory agencies such as the australian therapeutic goods administration ("tga"). we are regularly inspected by various regulatory authorities and customers. competition since other manufacturers of api typically do not offer all of the same product lines or serve all of the same markets as we do, the business competes on a product-by-product basis with a number of different competitors. our api category is subject to increased price competition from other manufacturers of api located mostly in india, china, and europe. this competition may result in the loss of api clients and/or decreased profitability. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for information and risks associated with competition. information applicable to all reportable segments research and development research and development is a key component of our business strategy and, while managed centrally, is performed in various locations in the countries in which we operate. while we conduct a significant amount of our own r&amp;d, we also enter into strategic alliance agreements to obtain the rights to manufacture and/or distribute new products. r&amp;d spending was $187.8 million , $152.5 million , and $115.2 million for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 , and 2013 , respectively. in addition, we wrote off in-process research and development ("ipr&amp;d") from previous acquisitions totaling $6.0 million during fiscal 2014 and $9.0 million during fiscal 2013 due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for various projects. fiscal year 2015 included incremental r&amp;d expense due to the omega acquisition, as well as entry into a collaboration arrangement and an r&amp;d contractual arrangement under which we funded a total of $28.0 million of r&amp;d. fiscal year 2014 included incremental research and development expense attributable to the sergeant's pet care products, inc. ("sergeant's") and velcera inc. ("velcera") acquisitions that closed during fiscal year 2014, as well as research and development expense related to the elnd005 phase 2 clinical program in collaboration with transition therapeutics, inc. ("transition") we acquired from elan. we ended our collaboration with transition during the third quarter of fiscal year 2014 and are no longer responsible for ongoing development activities and costs associated with elnd005. fiscal year 2013 included incremental r&amp;d expenses attributable to the acquisition of sergeant's, velcera, and rosemont pharmaceuticals ltd. see item 8. note 2 and item 8. note 15 for more information on the acquisitions, collaboration arrangement, and r&amp;d contractual arrangement noted above. we anticipate that r&amp;d expenditures will increase above fiscal year 2015 levels in dollar terms but will remain relatively flat to slightly higher as a percentage of net sales fo r the foreseeable future as we continue to 11 perrigo company plc - item 1 cultivate our presence in the rx-to-otc switch and generic pharmaceutical markets and develop our internal r&amp;d capabilities. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with innovation and r&amp;d. trademarks and patents while we own certain trademarks and patents, neither our business as a whole, nor any of our segments, is materially dependent upon our ownership of any one trademark or patent or group of trademarks or patents. materials sourcing affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets, and components are limited, or are available from one or only a few suppliers. while we have the ability to manufacture and supply certain api materials for our otc and rx pharmaceutical products, an increasing number of components and finished goods are purchased rather than manufactured because of temporary production limitations, fda restrictions, economic conditions, or other factors. historically, we have been able to react effectively to situations that require alternate sourcing. should alternate sourcing be necessary, fda requirements placed on products approved through the anda or nda process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. we believe we have good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of our suppliers and have historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to our volume of purchases. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with materials sourcing. manufacturing and distribution our primary manufacturing facilities are in the u.s. and israel. we also have secondary manufacturing facilities in the u.k., belgium, france, germany, mexico, australia, and india, along with a joint venture in china. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with our manufacturing facilities. we supplement our production capabilities with the purchase of products from outside sources. the capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times for various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of the cough/cold/flu, allergy, or flea and tick seasons, and new product launches. we may utilize available capacity by performing contract manufacturing for other companies. we have logistics facilities in the u.s., israel, mexico, australia, and numerous locations throughout europe. we use contract freight and common carriers to deliver our products. significant customers our primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current global retail drug industry marketplace. walmart is our largest customer and accounted for 15% of consolidated net sales in fiscal year 2015 and 19% in fiscal years 2014 and 2013 . sales to walmart are primarily in the chc segment. while we do not anticipate a change in the foreseeable future, should our current relationship with walmart change adversely, the resulting loss of business could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated and chc segment operating results and financial position. in addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of total net sales, we do have other significant customers. we believe we generally have good relationships with all of our customers. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with customers. 12 perrigo company plc - item 1 seasonality we historically have been impacted by seasonal demand and consumer dynamics in the retail environment in which our customers operate. sales of otc pharmaceutical products in the chc segment are typically subject to seasonal demands for cough/cold/flu products in our second and third fiscal year quarters and allergy products in our first and fourth fiscal year quarters. our bch sales are also impacted by seasonality and tend to peak in the fourth fiscal year quarter due to increased demand for seasonal health and wellness products. in addition, our animal health products are subject to seasonal demand for flea and tick products that typically peaks during the warmer weather months, which occurs during our fourth fiscal year quarter. our rx pharmaceutical, specialty sciences, and other segments' sales are not generally impacted by seasonal conditions. environmental we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. we have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws, but do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations will be material to our business. we do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding. while we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term. corporate social responsibility we are committed to doing business in an ethical manner. we also have a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where we are located. as reflected in our corporate social responsibility commitment statement, we remain committed to: helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable healthcare products; complying with regulatory and legal requirements; demonstrating environmental stewardship; continuously improving packaging sustainability; protecting human rights of our global employees and challenging our partners to do the same; providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; and establishing effective community partnerships. through these efforts, we strive to minimize our impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices, and ensure the welfare of our employees now and into the future. government regulation and pricing the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. in addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. we believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for related risks. united states regulation u.s. food and drug administration the fda has jurisdiction over our anda, nda, drug efficacy implementation ("desi drug"), and otc monograph drug products, infant formulas, dietary supplements, food products, and medical devices. the fda's jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of these products. we are committed to consistently providing our customers with high-quality products that adhere to "current good manufacturing practices" ("cgmp") regulations promulgated by the fda . 13 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation otc and rx pharmaceuticals all facilities where rx and otc drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed for the u.s. market must comply with fda cgmps and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries, states and localities where the facilities are located. all of our drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cgmp regulations. the fda performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. many of our otc pharmaceutical products are regulated under the otc monograph system and subject to certain fda regulations. under this system, selected otc drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the submission and approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing. drug products marketed under the otc monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula, and labeling requirements, including permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients, and dosage levels. it is generally less costly to develop and bring to market a product regulated under the otc monograph system. we also market generic prescription drugs and other products that have switched from prescription to otc status. prior to commercial marketing, these products require approval by the fda of an anda or nda that provides information on chemistry, manufacturing controls, clinical safety, efficacy and/or bioequivalence, packaging, and labeling. while the development process for a generic drug generally requires less time and expense than the development process for a new drug, the size and duration of required studies can vary greatly. the current average anda approval time is approximately 48 months from the date an anda is submitted. nda approvals are typically achieved in 16 months or less. changes to a product marketed under an anda or nda are governed by specific fda regulations and guidelines that define when proposed changes can be implemented and whether prior fda notice and/or approval is required. under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act ("ffdca"), as amended, a company submitting an nda can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for a prescription or otc product if it performs a clinical study that is essential to fda approval. longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs (those designated under section 526 of the ffdca) and drugs under the generating antibiotic incentives now act. during this exclusivity period, the fda cannot approve any andas for a similar or equivalent generic product, which can preclude us from marketing a similar product during this period. a company may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity if it conducts pediatric studies requested by the fda on the product. this exclusivity can delay both the fda approval and sales of certain products. a company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for certain products. this exclusivity period often follows a patent certification and litigation process whereby the product innovator may sue for infringement. the legal action does not ordinarily result in material damages, but it generally triggers a statutorily mandated delay in fda approval of the anda for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge. the food and drug administration safety and innovation act ("fdasia") was signed into law on july 9, 2012. the law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, fda authority concerning drug shortages, changes to enhance the fda's inspection authority of the drug supply chain, and a limited extension of the 30-month stay provision described above. the fdasia also reduced the time required for fda responses to generic-blocking citizen petitions. we implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of the fdasia, and we monitor facility self-identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications. infant formula and foods the fda's center for food safety and applied nutrition ("cfsan") is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. the office of nutrition, labeling and dietary supplements ("onlds") has labeling responsibility for infant formula, while the office of food additive safety ("ofas") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. the onlds evaluates whether an infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the 14 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation ffdca and consults with the ofas regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula. all manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. the infant formula act provides specific requirements for infant formula to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum and, in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients. before marketing a particular infant formula, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation consistent with the fda's labeling, nutrient content, and manufacturer quality control requirements. a manufacturer must notify the fda 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. we actively monitor this process and make the appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with recent fda rules regarding cgmp, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records for the production of infant formulas. in addition, the ffdca requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life; to keep records on production, testing, and distribution of each batch of infant formula; to use cgmp and quality control procedures; and to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which may reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. the fda conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula, inspects new facilities during early production runs, and collects and analyzes samples of infant formula. our infant and toddler foods are subject to the food safety modernization act ("fsma"), which protects the safety of u.s. foods by mandating comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. under fsma, the fda has mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers and is taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of a safety issue. dietary supplements manufactured in the u.s. the dietary supplement health and education act of 1994 ("dshea") amended the ffdca to, among other things: define dietary supplements and dietary ingredients; require ingredient and nutrition labeling for dietary supplements; permit "structure/function" statements for dietary supplements; permit the display of certain published literature where supplements are sold; authorize the fda to establish gmps specifically for dietary supplements, which it did in 2007; and require the submission of new dietary ingredient notifications to the fda. under dshea, the fda specified that all supplements must bear a "supplement facts" box, which lists all of the supplement's dietary ingredients using fda-specified nomenclature. dshea also permits dietary supplements to bear statements: claiming a benefit related to a classical nutrient deficiency disease, provided the prevalence of the disease in the u.s. is disclosed; describing the role of a nutrient or dietary ingredient intended to affect the structure or function in humans; characterizing the documented mechanism by which a nutrient or dietary ingredient acts to maintain such structure or function; and describing general well-being from consumption of a nutrient or dietary ingredient. we are subject to regulations published by the fda clarifying the types of "structure function" statements permissible in dietary supplement labeling. such statements cannot expressly or implicitly state that a dietary supplement has any effect on a "disease." as with foods in general, dietary supplement labeling may include a "health claim," which characterizes the role of a nutrient to a disease or health-related condition. 15 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation the dshea requires that the fda be notified at least 75 days in advance of the introduction of a dietary supplement that contains a new dietary ingredient that was not marketed before october 15, 1994. the notification must provide information establishing that the dietary supplement containing the dietary ingredient will be reasonably expected to be safe. we continue to invest in our dietary supplement operations and quality systems to ensure that we comply with current interpretation of the regulations. our u.s. dietary supplement facilities have been inspected by the fda and are operating in compliance with dietary supplement cgmp's. active pharmaceutical ingredients we develop and manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients in israel and india for export to the u.s. and other global markets. before active pharmaceutical ingredients can be commercialized in the u.s., we must submit a drug master file ("dmf") that provides the proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. the fda inspects the manufacturing facilities to assess cgmp compliance, and the facilities and procedures must be cgmp compliant before api may be exported to the u.s. the facilities and products are subject to regulation by the applicable regulatory bodies in the place of manufacture as well as the regulatory agency in the country from which the product is exported. our israeli facility has been approved by the u.s. fda, israel ministry of health ("imoh"), federal commission for the protection against sanitary risks of mexico, pharmaceutical and medical devices agency of japan, and the korean food and drug administration and has received gmp certification from imoh. our india facility has been inspected by the u.s. fda and has received gmp certification from the indian fda. for api exported to european markets, we submit a european dmf and, where applicable, obtain a certificate of suitability from the european directorate for the quality of medicines. the manufacturing facilities and production procedures for api marketed in europe must meet eu-gmp and european pharmacopeia standards. u.s. department of agriculture the organic foods production act enacted under title 21 of the 1990 farm bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic." our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio adhere to the standards of the u.s. department of agriculture ("usda") national organic program for the production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio are usda-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for u.s. and canadian markets. u.s. environmental protection agency the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") is the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show that their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. u.s. drug enforcement administration the u.s. drug enforcement administration ("dea") regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, and list i chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal controlled substances act ("csa"). the csa and dea regulations impose registration, security, record keeping, reporting, storage, manufacturing, distribution, importation and other requirements upon legitimate handlers under the oversight of the dea. the dea categorizes controlled substances into schedules i, ii, iii, iv, or v, with varying qualifications for listing in each schedule. we are subject to the requirements regarding the controlled substances in schedules ii - v and the list i chemicals. our facilities that manufacture, distribute, import, or export any controlled substances must register annually with the dea. 16 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation the dea inspects all manufacturing facilities to review security, record keeping, reporting, and handling prior to issuing a controlled substance registration, and it also periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the csa and its regulations. failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements, particularly as manifested in the loss or diversion of controlled substances, can result in enforcement action, such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registration, or the initiation of proceedings to revoke those registrations. in certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal prosecution. we are also subject to state legislation regulating the manufacture and distribution of certain products. medicaid drug rebate program and other drug pricing programs u.s. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of having federal funds being made available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b, enter into a rebate agreement with the u.s. government to pay rebates to state medicaid programs for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program. we have such a rebate agreement in effect. the centers for medicare and medicaid services ("cms") is responsible for administering the medicaid rebate agreements. we pay rebates on the utilization under fee-for-service arrangements as well as through medicaid managed care organizations. a medicaid rebate agreement provides that the drug manufacturer will remit rebates to each state medicaid agency on a quarterly basis based on pricing data reported by the manufacturer to cms, including average manufacturer price ("amp") and, in the case of innovator products, best price ("bp"). we report amp on a monthly and quarterly basis and best price on a quarterly basis. the minimum rebate amounts due are as follows: for noninnovator products, in general generic drugs marketed under andas, the rebate amount is 13% of the amp for the quarter; for innovator products, in general brand-name products marketed under ndas, the rebate amount is the greater of 23.1% of the amp for the quarter or the difference between such amp and the best price for that same quarter. manufacturers also pay an additional rebate on innovator drugs where price increases since launch have outpaced inflation. in addition to using amp information to calculate rebates, cms is preparing to use amps to calculate a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates to pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ("ful"), and has been publishing draft fuls based on reported amps. cms also has begun surveying and publishing retail community pharmacy acquisition cost and consumer price information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. u.s. law also requires that a company that participates in the medicaid rebate program report average sales price ("asp") information to cms for certain categories of drugs that are paid under part b of the medicare program. cms uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under medicare part b. pricing and rebate calculations are governed by statutory and regulatory requirements that are complex, vary among products and programs, can change over time, and are subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies , and the courts. in the case of the medicaid rebate program, if we become aware of errors in our prior price submissions, or a prior best price ("bp") submission needs to be updated due to late arriving data, we must resubmit the updated data for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally was due. such restatements and recalculations increase our cost of compliance with the medicaid rebate program, and corrections can result in an overage or underage of our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. u.s. law requires any company that participates in the medicaid rebate program also participate in the public health service's 340b drug pricing program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b. the 340b drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340b ceiling price for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. the ceiling price is derived from the data the manufacturer reports under the medicaid rebate program and therefore any changes to statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to the medicaid price figures may impact the 340b ceiling price calculation as well. 340b covered entities include a variety of community 17 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the public health service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. u.s. law also requires any company that participates in the medicaid rebate program and medicare part b and that wants its covered drugs paid for by certain federal agencies and grantees participate in the department of veterans affairs ("va") federal supply schedule ( fss ) pricing program. accordingly, we must enter into an fss contract with the va, whereby our "covered drugs" are available to the va, the department of defense ("dod"), the public health service, and the coast guard (collectively the big four ) at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price ( fcp ). in addition to the veterans health care act of 1992 requirements, fss contracts include extensive disclosure and certification requirements and standard government terms and conditions with which we must comply. we also have a section 703 agreement under which we pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to tricare beneficiaries by tricare network retail pharmacies. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks related to the above-mentioned programs. other u.s. regulations and organizations we are subject to various other national, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: physician payment sunshine act - this act requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977 ("fcpa") - this act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. federal trade commission ("ftc") - this agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. the ftc considers whether a product's claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. the ftc also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. nsf international ("nsf") - the nsf is an independent, not-for-profit, non-governmental organization that provides risk management services for public health and safety. many of our dietary supplement products are certified under nsf/ansi standard 173. international organization for standardization ("iso") - the iso standards specify requirements for a quality management system that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. our infant formula manufacturing sites are iso 9001-2008 certified for quality management systems. iso inspections are conducted at least annually. united states pharmacopeial convention, inc. ("usp") - the usp is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. by reference, the ffdca incorporates the usp quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product's labeling. usp standards exist for most rx and otc pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. the fda typically requires usp compliance as part of cgmp compliance. 18 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation health insurance portability and accountability act ("hipaa") - we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. consumer product safety commission ("cpsc") - the cpsc has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. the manufacturer of any product that is subject to any cpsc rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with cpsc requirements. other state agencies - we are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state. regulation outside the u.s. we develop and manufacture products in a number of countries outside the u.s., including many european countries, israel, india, mexico and australia, each of which has its own regulatory environment. following the omega acquisition, our business has expanded significantly into non-u.s. markets, subjecting us to increased regulation in those markets. in addition, we export many of our products to other countries. in the u.s., exporting requirements are regulated by the fda and, where appropriate, dea laws. outside the u.s., each individual country has its own requirements for the importation of products. each country requires approval of products by that country's regulatory agencies through a registration process. registration requirements include the manufacturing process, formula, packaging, testing, labeling, advertising, and marketing of the products. each country regulates what is required and may be represented to the public on labeling and promotional material. approval for the sale of our products by these regulatory agencies may be subject to delays. we believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject. see below for more information on regulation within the significant regions in which we operate. european union the european pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the european parliament and the european commission. this has many benefits, including the potential to harmonize standards across the complex european market, but it also has the potential to create difficulties affecting the whole european market. some elements of the european falsified medicines directive (the directive ) were enacted into national laws during 2013. the provisions of the directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of api manufactured outside of the european union ("eu"). the requirements deriving from european pharmacovigilance legislation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors' expectations. while these new requirements are in the interest of patient safety and transparency, they are an increasing administrative burden, which drives our costs and headcount to be higher. pharmacovigilance fee legislation was effective in late 2014. it includes (i) a per license fee that is intended for the maintenance of the european pharmacovigilance system; and (ii) a per activity fee, for the assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals. pharmaceutical manufacturers in the eu are regulated by the ema. we are required to submit medicinal products, including generic versions of previously approved products and new strengths, dosages and formulations of previously approved products, to the ema and its member states for review and marketing authorization before such products are placed on the market in the eu. marketing authorizations are granted to applicants after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product. in order to receive such assessment, applicants must submit applications containing the results of pre-clinical tests, pharmaceutical tests, and clinical trials with respect to original products, or originator data with respect to the generic versions of previously approved products. all of 19 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation these tests or trials must be conducted in accordance within european regulations and must allow the reviewing body to evaluate the quality, safety, and efficacy of the medicinal product. the eu presents complex challenges from a regulatory perspective. there is over-arching legislation that is implemented at a local level by the 28 individual member states, iceland, liechtenstein, and norway. between 1995 and 1998, the legislation was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. this revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition ( mr ) procedure, whereby after submission and approval by the authorities of the so-called reference member state ( rms ), further applications can be submitted into the other chosen member states (known as concerned member states). theoretically, the authorization of the rms should be mutually recognized by the concerned member states. more typically, however, a degree of re-evaluation is carried out by the concerned member states. in november 2005, this legislation was further revised. in addition to the mr procedure, the decentralized procedure ( dcp ) was introduced. the dcp is also led by the rms, but applications are simultaneously submitted to all selected countries, provided that no national marketing authorization has been granted yet for the medicinal product in question. beginning in 2005, the centralized procedure operated by the ema became available for generic versions of innovator products approved through the centralized authorization procedure. the centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization, which, once granted, can be used by the marketing-authorization holder to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the eu countries listed on the application. in the eu, as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products is regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the u.s. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any pharmaceutical product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. the registration file relating to any particular product must contain medical data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. in addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer's facilities obtain approval from the national authority. the eu has a code of gmp that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. regulatory authorities in the eu may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems, and personnel qualifications. in the eu, member states regulate the pricing of pharmaceutical products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. this regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. these individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. the implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally tendering refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country. data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, including in the eu, where these provisions were recently extended, although the application is not uniform. in general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. as these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. further, faced with major budget constraints, many european countries have resorted to price cuts that affect both innovative and generic pharmaceuticals, although in some countries it has disproportionately affected generic products. in addition, some eu countries recently had to address statements and rumors claiming that generics are not as safe and effective as reference drugs, which may undermine efforts to increase generic utilization rates. 20 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation other countries israel : in israel, the manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products is regulated in a manner similar in many respects to u.s. or eu legal requirements, and laws generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing and importation of any pharmaceutical product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. the registration file relating to any particular product must contain medical data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. the israel health ministry is authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful, ineffective, or manufactured and marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. mexico : pharmaceutical manufacturers and products in mexico are regulated by the federal commission for protection against health risks, which is a decentralized body of the mexican ministry of health responsible for registering pharmaceutical products, regulating research, development, production, storage and distribution of such products, and monitoring the quality, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products commercialized in mexico. the general health law, as well as a catalog of regulations regulate the conditions for the establishment, production, import, export, and sale of products of the pharmaceutical industry in mexico. there are also several mexican official standards on specific subjects of the pharmaceutical market in mexico to be observed, such as the labeling or good practices for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products. australia : pharmaceutical manufacturers and products are regulated in australia by the tga, which oversees the quality, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products and other therapeutic goods. all manufacturing facilities and processes must comply with good manufacturing practices, and pharmaceutical products manufactured must be listed in the australian register of therapeutic goods, before they can be marketed or supplied for sale in australia. the government regulates the pharmaceuticals market through the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, which is a governmental healthcare program established to subsidize the cost of pharmaceuticals to australian citizens. china : the export of our infant formula to china is subject to regulation by multiple chinese regulatory agencies. the regulations applicable to infant formula and imported infant formulas are evolving, and further regulatory revisions are expected to be implemented in the future. in april 2014, the certification and accreditation administration of the people's republic of china ("cnca") conducted an assessment on registration of infant formula dairy producers in the u.s. as a result of this assessment, our vermont infant formula manufacturing site was approved by cnca to export infant formula to china. employees as of june 27, 2015 we had approximately 13,500 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 3,000 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. as of june 28, 2014 we had approximately 10,200 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 1,500 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. the increase in both total employees and employees covered by collective bargaining agreements was due to the omega acquisition. the majority of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are located in europe, mexico, and israel. we consider our employee relations generally satisfactory. available information our principal executive offices are located at the treasury building, lower grand canal street, dublin 2, ireland and our administrative offices are located at 515 eastern avenue, allegan, michigan 49010. our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. our website address is www.perrigo.com , where we make available free of charge our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). these filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il . 21 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors item 1a. risk factors risks related to operations if we do not continue to rapidly develop, manufacture and market innovative products that meet customer demands, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. our continued growth is due in large part to our ability to rapidly develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer requirements for performance, safety, and cost effectiveness. continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to our business. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market new products, we could lose market share, and our net sales may be negatively impaired. see item 1. business - research and development for more information. we maintain a diversified product line to function as a primary supplier for our customers. capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. our estimates of future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. in addition, if we fail to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, we may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions. our product margins may decline over time due to our products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice, or developments in new drug delivery technology; therefore, new product introductions are necessary to maintain our current financial condition. if we are unable to continue to create new products, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. we must prove that the anda drug products our chc and rx pharmaceuticals segments produce are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which requires bioequivalency studies, and in the case of topical products, even more extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy. the development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. products currently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges. necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, and we may not be able to successfully and profitably produce and market such products. this could negatively impact our net sales. our ability to attract and retain scientists proficient in emerging delivery forms and/or contracting with a third party in order to generate new products of this type is critical to our long-term plans. if we fail to attract and retain this talent, our long term sales growth and profit could be adversely impacted. even upon the successful development of a product, our customer's failure to launch a product successfully could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the fda or similar regulatory agency could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain regulatory clearance to launch new formulations into the market. we contract with clinical research organizationss ("cros") to conduct various studies that are used to support our new product development program. during the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, certain of these cros began bankruptcy or receivership proceedings, including pracs institute, llc, pracs institute canada b.c. ltd., comprehensive clinical development, inc., and their related entities. it is uncertain what impact these insolvency proceedings may have on their ability to deliver their study results to us or on our ability to rely on their research. to the extent these cros cannot deliver their study results to us or we cannot rely, in whole or in part, on the research conducted by them, we may be required to delay the launch of new products, which could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results. the fda may be limited in its ability to inspect cros' study facilities or to gain access to source study documents, which may result in us having to repeat biostudies. if these scenarios occur, it could result in approval delays for new products, which could adversely impact our future net sales. these situations are unique, and we are unable to predict the fda's position on the studies conducted by these now bankrupt cros. 22 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our chc and bch segments are impacted by changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to adapt to these changes, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. while the market for store brand products has grown in recent years, there can be no assurance that the growth will continue. additionally, consumer preferences related to health and nutritional concerns may change, which could negatively impact demand for our chc and bch products or cause us to incur additional costs to change our products or product packaging. the future growth and stability of u.s. store brand market share will be impacted, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products. our chc segment sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and consumers return to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products. conversely, while store brand products present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, if economic conditions deteriorate, our chc segment sales could be negatively impacted if consumers forgo obtaining healthcare or reduce their healthcare spending. our bch segment's success is due in large part to the continued growth in demand for its lifestyle products, which include weight-loss products and various dietary supplements. if demand for these products decreases, our bch segment's results of operations would be negatively impacted. our chc customers may request changes in packaging to meet consumer demands, which could cause us to incur inventory obsolescence charges and redesign costs, which would negatively impact the chc segment's results of operations. our infant formula product category within our chc segment is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. our business depends, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. to the extent that private, public, and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products. we could also be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the u.s. federal government through the women, infants and children program, as we do not participate in this program. we face risks associated with the successful integration of our recently-acquired omega business. as described in item 1. business - major recent developments , we closed on the omega acquisition on march 30, 2015. in addition to the risks mentioned under " we may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results ", the omega acquisition exposes us to a number of additional business, financial, and competitive risks, including: the omega acquisition represents a major shift in our business, both geographically, as our business is now more heavily concentrated in european markets than before, and operationally, as the omega business sells well-known branded products using a large sales force. these changes may present challenges and risks related to, among other things, our attempt to create synergies with omega. there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate omega or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the omega acquisition. our success in the european markets in which omega operates will depend on a number of factors, such as: our ability to commercialize new products; our ability to adapt to changes in economic and political conditions; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; compliance with differing regulatory and legal requirements, including tax laws, trade laws, labor, safety, local content, consumer protection regulation and import or export licensing requirements; and consistency and transparency of foreign tax systems, transfer pricing stability across jurisdictions, and our ability to reinvest earnings and cash as appropriate. 23 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors many of these factors are beyond our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased net sales and diversion of management's time and energy, any or all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. while omega has not historically been subject to u.s. laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, it has been subject to a wide range of european laws and regulations, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010. the comparable u.s. laws and regulations to which omega is now subject may differ from those to which omega was historically subject. therefore, it is possible that certain omega sales or other activities that were permitted while omega was an independent company may no longer be permitted. while we are putting into place compliance processes and controls intended to ensure compliance with u.s. and global laws that now apply to omega, if omega's operations fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. we have been the subject of unsolicited interest from mylan, which has been, and may continue to be, a distraction to our management and could have a material adverse impact on our business and operations. the pharmaceutical industry has been intensely acquisitive over the past several years. mylan has made several unsolicited offers to purchase all of our outstanding ordinary shares as described in detail below. the uncertainty regarding mylan's future actions or further pursuit of a revised proposal or offer may be disruptive to our business, which could have a negative effect on our operations, financial condition, or results of operations. since april 2015, mylan has made several unsolicited offers to purchase all of our outstanding ordinary shares as described below: april 6, 2015 - mylan sent a letter containing an unsolicited proposal to acquire all of our outstanding ordinary shares for $205.00 per share (the "proposal"), which mylan made public on april 8, 2015. following a comprehensive review, our board of directors unanimously rejected the proposal, concluding that it substantially undervalued us and our future growth prospects and was not in the best interests of our shareholders. prior to making the proposal, mylan was the subject of market speculation related to a possible offer to purchase mylan from teva pharmaceutical industries ltd. ("teva"). on april 21, 2015, teva announced an unsolicited proposal to acquire all of the outstanding shares of mylan for $82.00 per share, with the consideration to be comprised of approximately 50% cash and 50% stock. on april 27, 2015, mylan announced that its board of directors had rejected the proposal, following which teva reiterated its commitment to its proposal. april 24, 2015 - mylan provided a firm offer to acquire all of our outstanding ordinary shares for a combination of $60.00 per share in cash and 2.2 mylan ordinary shares for each of our ordinary shares (the offer ). that same day, we announced our board of directors' rejection of the offer, for the same reasons we rejected the proposal. april 29, 2015 - mylan announced a revised offer to acquire all of our outstanding ordinary shares for $75.00 per share in cash and 2.3 mylan ordinary shares for each of our ordinary shares (the revised offer ). that same day, we announced our board of directors' rejection of the revised offer. since our rejection of the revised offer from mylan, no further offers have been made. however, mylan reiterated its proposal to acquire us on the terms of the revised offer in its proxy statement filed on july 28, 2015. additionally, on july 27, 2015, mylan announced that it will hold an extraordinary general meeting of its shareholders on august 28, 2015 in connection with its proposed acquisition of us. on july 27, 2015, teva announced that it had withdrawn its proposal to acquire mylan. teva's decision to terminate its proposal to acquire mylan followed teva's announcement that it had entered into a definitive agreement with allergan to acquire allergan generics. 24 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors on august 13, 2015, mylan announced that it formally lowered the acceptance condition for its offer to acquire perrigo from not less than 80% of perrigo ordinary shares to greater than 50% of perrigo ordinary shares. responding to the proposal, offer, and revised offer has been, and may continue to be, a distraction for certain of our management and employees, and has required, and may continue to require, us to incur additional expenses and costs. since the announcement of the offer, we have incurred $13.4 million in related fees. management and employee distraction related to mylan's unsolicited interest also may adversely impact our ability to optimally conduct our business and pursue our strategic objectives. further, we are deemed to be in an "offer period" for the purposes of the irish takeover rules, which may restrict our ability to execute our strategy on a timely basis. we operate in a highly regulated industry, and any inability to timely meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. we are subject to the regulations of a variety of u.s. and non-u.s. agencies related to the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products as described in detail in item 1. business - government regulation and pricing . government regulation in the markets in which we operate could impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. below are some of the ways in which government regulation could impact our business and/or financial results: we must obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies in order to manufacture and sell our products in the regions in which we operate. obtaining this approval can be time consuming and costly. there can be no assurance that, in the event we submit an application to the fda or any other regulatory agency approval, we will obtain the approval to market a prescription or otc product and/or that we will obtain it on a timely basis. if we are granted generic exclusivity, the exclusivity may be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics; or it is possible that we may forfeit 180-day exclusivity if we do not obtain regulatory approval or begin marketing the product within the statutory requirements. finally, if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of our product. if the fda reclassifies certain anda or nda drug products to the otc monograph system and no longer requires the approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing, there may be increased competition and lower profitability related to such products. while we would make appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with any changes and updates to the otc monograph system, we cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted, the effect of any such legislation on our business, or how it may impact the competitive landscape. see item 1. business - consumer healthcare for more information on the otc monograph system. regulatory agencies regularly inspect our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our third-party suppliers. the failure of one of our facilities, or a facility of one of our third-party suppliers, to comply with applicable laws and regulations may lead to a breach of representations made to our customers, or to regulatory or government action against us related to the products made in that facility. such action could include: suspension of or delay in regulatory approvals, product seizure, injunction, recall, suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, civil or criminal prosecution. additionally, the agency could make its concerns public, thereby impacting our reputation. the fda, and similar regulatory agencies, have the authority to require new clinical or bioequivalence studies, limit distribution, or order label changes. under certain circumstances, the fda also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals if there are concerns over a product's safety or efficacy. the fda also conducts non-prescription drug advisory committee meetings to evaluate the safety of introducing prescription products to the otc market. the expansion of rx-to-otc switches is critical to our future growth. fda reluctance to approve otc switches in new product categories could impact that growth. 25 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors the u.s. government federal drug supply chain security act ("dscsa") requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. the serialization of all rx products distributed in the u.s. needs to be completed by november 27, 2017, with the requirement for tracking the products commencing on november 27, 2023. requirements for the tracing of products through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain go into effect on january 1, 2015, for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. compliance with dscsa and future u.s. federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. several bills have been introduced in u.s. congress that could, if enacted, affect the manufacture and marketing of rx and otc drugs including labeling and packaging. for example, the fda is proposing to change existing regulations to require generic drug application holders to revise their labeling so that it differs from the corresponding brand drug upon submission of a "changes being effected" ("cbe-0") supplement to the fda. the fda has not yet issued a final rule on this issue. if this proposed regulatory change is adopted, it may eliminate the preemption of certain failure-to-warn claims, with respect to generic drugs, which could have an adverse impact on our future operating results. regulatory bodies outside of the u.s. could enact similar legislation. we cannot predict whether further label restrictions may be required, or whether additional regulations in the u.s. or other countries in which we operate, may be passed. our infant formula products may be subject to barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and dictating the specific content of infant formula products. governments could enhance regulations on the industry aimed at ensuring the safety and quality of dairy products, including, but not limited to, compulsory batch-by-batch inspection and testing for additional safety and quality issues. such inspections and testing may increase our operating costs related to infant formula products. additionally, the fda and other regulatory agencies are beginning to scrutinize claims on infant formula labels. any labeling changes required for regulatory compliance could render our packaging inventories obsolete. on june 10, 2014, the fda published a final rule ("fr") entitled "current good manufacturing practices, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and records and reports, for infant formula." the fr includes, among other things, new or modified requirements related to infant formula manufacturing, quality controls, record-keeping, and clinical trials. while it is uncertain how the fda will interpret and enforce the fr, we are taking steps to comply with the provisions of the fr. compliance with the fr could be costly. to the extent the fda believes that we have not complied with the fr, we could experience potential supply chain disruptions and delays in commercialization of new infant formula products. we have expanded our pharmaceutical marketing to include direct interactions with healthcare professionals, which is known as detailing. this activity is subject to extensive regulation under a variety of u.s. laws and regulations, including anti-kickback, anti-bribery and false claims laws; the ffdca with respect to claims and off-label promotions; and similar laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. if our marketing activities are found to be improper, we could be subject to civil and governmental actions and penalties. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations. we manufacture products that are safe and effective when used in accordance with label directions. certain of our products contain ingredients that can be used for improper purposes. additional legislation or regulation may be enacted to mitigate improper uses of these ingredients, which could adversely impact our sales of products containing these ingredients and the corresponding income. if we are unable to successfully obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances and list i chemicals, we risk having delayed product launches or failures to meet commercial supply obligations. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements for controlled substances and list i chemicals, the dea, or similar regulatory agency, may take regulatory actions, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution of our products, withdrawal of our products from the market, or other penalties. 26 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our prescription products that are marketed without approved applications must meet certain manufacturing and labeling standards established by the fda. the fda takes a risk-based approach to its enforcement and considers factors such as the introduction date of the product's active ingredients, lack of safety concerns, and how many years the product has been marketed. there can be no assurance that the fda will continue this policy or not take a contrary position with respect to any individual product or group of products. if the fda were to take a contrary position, we may be required to seek fda approval for these products or withdraw the products from the market. our annual sales for such unapproved products were approximately $46.5 million in fiscal year 2015 . in addition, our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, such as restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies. we must also comply with a variety of u.s. laws related to doing business outside of the u.s., including office of foreign asset controls, united nations and eu sanctions; the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. further changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare may affect our business and operations. healthcare reform and related changes to reimbursement methods in and outside of the united states may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. increasing healthcare expenditures have received considerable public attention in many of the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., government programs such as medicare and medicaid, as well as private insurers have been focused on cost containment. in the eu and some other markets outside the u.s., the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. our rx pharmaceutical segment in particular could be adversely impacted by measures taken by governmental entities or private insurers to restrict patients' access to our products or increase pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases, and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. these actions may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices or may reduce the ability of customers to pay for our products, which could negatively impact the rx pharmaceutical segment's results of operations. if we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. as described in item 1. business - medicaid drug rebate programs , we have a medicaid rebate agreement in effect with the u.s. government. there are inherent risks associated with participating in the medicaid drug rebate program including the following: we are required to report pricing data to cms on a monthly basis. if we fail to submit required information, make misrepresentations, or knowingly submit false information to the government as to amp, asp, or bp, we may be liable for substantial civil monetary penalties or subject to other enforcement actions, such as under the false claims act, and cms may terminate our medicaid drug rebate agreement. in that event, u.s. federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs. health reform legislation enacted in 2010 requires the use of amp data to calculate fuls and amends the statutory definitions of amp and "multiple source drug" in a manner that materially affects the calculation of fuls. cms also has begun surveying and publishing retail community pharmacy acquisition cost and consumer price information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own 27 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. we do not know how the new methodologies for calculating amp and fuls or the retail survey acquisition cost and consumer price information will affect our pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers will seek to pass on any decrease in medicaid reimbursements to us. we also cannot predict how the sharing of ful data and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace. if we inadvertently overcharge the government in connection with our fss contract or section 703 agreement, whether due to a misstated fcp or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in false claims act allegations or potential violations of other laws and regulations. unexpected refunds to the government, and responses to a government investigation or enforcement action, are expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. our calculations and methodologies are subject to review by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that these reviews could result in challenges to our submissions. if we do not comply with those reporting and payment obligations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare programs (including medicaid and medicare). in june 2013, we received notices from the office of the attorney general for the state of texas of civil investigative demands for two of our affiliates, perrigo pharmaceuticals company and paddock laboratories, llc ("paddock"). the notices request information under the texas medicaid fraud prevention act relating to the submission of prices to texas medicaid in claims for reimbursement for drugs. we have cooperated with requests for information and are in the process of evaluating this and other information. while we do not know the full extent of our potential liability at this time and intend to vigorously defend against any claims, we could be subject to material penalties and damages. see item 8. note 15 for further information. we face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical companies that may threaten the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our products compete against store brand, generic, and branded pharmaceutical companies. competition is also impacted by changes in regulations and government pricing programs that may give competitors an advantage. as a manufacturer of generic versions of brand-name drugs through our chc and rx segments, we experience competition from brand-name drug companies that may try to prevent, discourage or delay the use of generic versions through various measures, including introduction of new branded products, legislative initiatives, changing dosage forms or dosing regimens, regulatory processes, filing new patents or patent extensions, lawsuits, citizens' petitions, and negative publicity prior to introduction of a generic product. in addition, brand-name competitors may lower their prices to compete with generic products, increase advertising, or launch, either through an affiliate or licensing arrangements with another company, or an authorized generic at or near the time the first generic product is launched, depriving the generic product market of the exclusivity intended by the hatch-waxman act. our chc and rx pharmaceuticals segments also experience competition from our generic competitors, some of whom are significantly larger than we are, may develop their products more rapidly or complete regulatory approval processes sooner, or may market their products earlier than we do. if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, which would prevent us from selling the product during the exclusivity period. even if we are the first to file, in certain circumstances, we may not be able to fully exploit our 180-day exclusivity period. additionally, our chc and rx pharmaceuticals segments may experience increased price competition as other generic companies produce the same product or introduce new drugs and/or drug delivery techniques that make our current products less desirable. a drug may be subject to competition from alternative 28 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity, and thereafter we may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars. the pharmaceutical industry is consolidating. this creates larger competitors and places further pressure on prices, development activities, and customer retention. our animal health category within the chc segment also has seen a dramatic increase in direct to consumer advertising by several branded competitors, and our nutritionals category has experienced increased competition through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail, and direct sales. we develop and distribute branded products through our bch segment. we experience competition from other brand-name drug companies, many of which are larger and have more resources to devote to advertising and marketing. these direct competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. our current and future competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those offered by us at more competitive prices. if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed through loss of customers or increased negative pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our operating results. lack of availability, or significant increases in the cost, of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results. affordable high-quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. in addition, maintaining good supply relationships is essential to our ongoing operations. see item 1. business - materials sourcing for more information. we maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher-volume or more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of net sales. additionally, fda requirements for products approved through the anda or nda process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. as a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers could have a negative material impact on our financial results. our infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder, and lactose. our supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality we deem necessary. raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond our control including seasonal and environmental factors, governmental agricultural and environmental policy, and global demand. we cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients necessary to produce infant formula. our products, and the raw materials used to make those products, generally have limited shelf lives. our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. we may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. cargo thefts and/or diversions, and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may occur, causing unexpected shortages, which may have a material impact on our operations. we rely on third parties to source many of our raw materials, as well as to manufacture sterile, injectable products that we distribute. we maintain a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants, and 29 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors toxic substances. nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes, or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of the contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. any future recall or removal would result in additional costs and lost revenue, harm our reputation, and may give rise to product liability litigation. a disruption at any of our main manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a few locations. see item 1. business - manufacturing and distribution for more information on our significant operations. a significant disruption at one or more of these facilities, whether it be due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, intentional acts of vandalism, war, terrorism, insufficient quality, or pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business. in recent years, there has been increasing regulatory scrutiny of pharmaceutical manufacturers, resulting in product recalls, plant shutdowns and other required remedial actions. if any regulatory body were to require one or more of our significant manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. any breach or disruption of our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. our systems, information, and operations, as well as our independent vendor relationships (where they support information technology and manufacturing infrastructure), are highly complex and vulnerable to disruption or damage from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, sabotage, industrial espionage, and computer viruses. given our position in the pharmaceutical industry, we may be more likely to be a direct target, or an indirect casualty, of such events. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. risks include: breaches or disruptions could impair our ability to develop, meet regulatory approval efforts for, produce, and/or ship products on a timely basis; any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower sales volume, and incur significant liabilities; and we could incur significant expense in addressing a disruption and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. because our business depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of our sales, our business would be adversely affected by a disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' business. sales to our largest customer, walmart, comprised approximately 15% of fiscal year 2015 net sales. while no other customer individually comprised more than 10% of total net sales, we do have other significant customers. if our relationship with one or more of these other customers, including the terms for doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on us. see item 1. business - significant customers for more information. many of our customers, which include chain drug stores, wholesalers, distributors, hospital systems, and group purchasing organizations, continue to merge or consolidate. such consolidation has provided and may continue to provide them with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures we face. the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. in addition, a number of our customers have instituted sourcing programs limiting the number of suppliers of generic pharmaceutical products carried by that customer. these developments have resulted in heightened pricing pressure on our products, as well as competition among generic drug producers for business from a smaller and more selective customer base. 30 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors additionally, if we are unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, and/or end their relationships with us. our specialty sciences segment generates revenue primarily from royalties on tysabri , and any negative developments related to tysabri could have a material adverse effect on our business. we occasionally enter into arrangements that entitle us to potential royalties from third parties. our most significant royalty is the tysabri royalty received quarterly from biogen idec, which generated $338.4 million of pretax income in fiscal year 2015. see item 1. business - specialty sciences for more information on our tysabri royalty arrangement. our pretax income could be adversely affected if the royalty streams decline in future periods. factors that may have an adverse effect on our tysabri royalty stream are as follows: foreign currency movement, which could have a negative impact on biogen inc.'s tysabri sales, thereby reducing our royalties; companies working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis that, if successfully developed, would compete with and could gain greater acceptance than tysabri and damage our market share; any negative developments relating to tysabri , such as safety, efficacy, or reimbursement issues, could reduce demand for tysabri ; and adverse regulatory or legislative developments could limit or prohibit the sale of tysabri , such as restrictions on the use of tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, which may significantly reduce expected net sales and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. additionally, tysabri sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings in the label, including the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ("pml"), a serious brain infection. the risk of developing pml may increase with prior immunosuppressant use, longer treatment duration, or the presence of jc virus antibodies. increased incidence of pml could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label, or result in market withdrawal. in addition, the result of ongoing or future clinical trials involving tysabri or other adverse events reported in association with the use of tysabri may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of tysabri . we are dependent on the services of certain key executive and scientific employees. the failure to attract and retain such employees may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. in particular, key employees of acquired companies may perceive uncertainty about their future role until strategies regarding the combined business are fully executed, and the recent offers from mylan may affect the recruitment and retention of our workforce. key functions for us include executive managers, operational managers, r&amp;d scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists, and sales/marketing personnel. if we are unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, our future operating results may be adversely impacted. unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products, and may be affected by changing consumer preferences. negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations, or recalls, regardless of whether they involve us or our products. the mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients, or concerns about our products or the materials used in our products, could discourage consumers from buying our products, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported. 31 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our products involve risks such as product contamination, spoilage, mislabeling, and tampering that could require us to recall one or more of our products. serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against us that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses, delays in the issuance of governmental approvals for new products, or other governmental penalties, all of which could be detrimental to our reputation and reduce demand for our products. we cannot guarantee that counterfeiting, imitation or other tampering with our products will not occur or that we will be able to detect and resolve it. any counterfeiting or contamination of any products could negatively impact our sales, particularly if counterfeit or imitation products cause death or injury to consumers. many of the brands we acquired from omega have european recognition. this recognition is the result of the large investments omega has made in its products over many years. the quality and safety of the products are critical to our business. if we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about safety, quality, efficacy, or similar matters, sentiments toward us and our products could be negatively impacted. our bch segment's financial success is dependent on the success of its brands, and the success of these brands can suffer if marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers. in addition, given the association of individual products within the commercial network of our bch segment, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of other products, thereby potentially hurting our financial results. powdered infant formula products are not sterile. all of our infant formula products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. depending on the product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw materials, the processing and packaging of food products, and the use and handling by consumers, hospital personnel, and healthcare professionals. in the event that certain of our infant formula products are found or alleged to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not under our control, our reputation and our infant formula product category sales could be materially adversely affected. scientific studies and media reports can have a negative impact on the demand for certain of our products, even when they do not directly involve us. for instance, there have been recent reports questioning the efficacy of regular consumption of certain vitamins and supplements. additionally, the new york attorney general has asked several major retailers to halt sales of herbal supplements. our vms sales have been negatively impacted by the media attention. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputation damage. the company and our employees increasingly utilize social media as a means of internal and external communication. to the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. a violation of such guidelines may damage our reputation as well as cause potential lawsuits and adversely affect our operating activities. our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, and that may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. 32 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors negative posts or comments about us, store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation and could adversely affect the price of our securities. in addition, negative posts or comments about our products could result in increased pharmacovigilance reporting requirements, which may give rise to liability if we fail to fully comply with such requirements. our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of our management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. some of these factors include the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu and allergy season, and flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by us and our competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in accounting pronouncements, the magnitude and timing of r&amp;d investments, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by our customers, and the timing of retailer promotional programs. we may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. one of our growth strategies is inorganic growth through the acquisition of products and companies that we expect will benefit the company. this strategy comes with a number of financial, managerial, and operational risks. we may not realize the benefits of an acquisition because of integration and other challenges, including, but not limited to the following: the difficulty involved with managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company; uncertainties involved in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities of the respective parties; unanticipated changes in the business, industry, market or general economic conditions different from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction; potential inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies, or return on investment, from an acquisition in the amounts or on the timeframe anticipated; substantial demands on our management, operational resources, technology, and financial and internal control systems, which could lead to dissatisfaction and potential loss of key customers, management or employees; integration activities may detract attention from our day-to-day business, and there might be substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts; and we may undertake financing to complete an acquisition that impacts our liquidity, credit ratings and financial position, thereby making it more difficult, restrictive or expensive to raise future capital. actual results may differ from pro forma financial information of the combined companies due to changes in the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, changes in assumptions used to form estimates, differences in accounting policies between the companies, and completion of purchase accounting. we have acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject us to losses and may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we have recorded significant intangible assets and goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of previous acquisitions, which could become impaired and lead to material charges in the future. we regularly review our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are subject to impairment review on an annual basis and whenever impairment indicators are present. we perform an impairment analysis on intangible assets subject to amortization when there is an indication that the carrying amount of any 33 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors individual asset may not be recoverable. any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicates a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. our annual goodwill impairment testing performed in the fourth fiscal year quarter resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of $6.8 million for fiscal year 2015 . there were no intangible asset impairment charges recorded in fiscal year 2015 . see item 8. note 3 for further information. global risks our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. we manufacture, source raw materials, and sell our products in a number of countries. we are subject to risks associated with international manufacturing and sales, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; problems related to markets with different cultural biases or political systems; possible difficulties in enforcing agreements; longer payment cycles and shipping lead-times; difficulties obtaining export or import licenses or changes in import/export regulations; and imposition of withholding or other taxes. additionally, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering import/export regulations. to the extent that we are unable to successfully defend against an audit or review, we may be required to pay assessments, penalties and increased duties. certain of our facilities operate in a special purpose subzone established by the u.s. department of commerce foreign trade zone board, which allows us certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. if the foreign trade zone board were to revoke the subzone designation or limit its use by us, we could be subject to increased duties. although we believe that we conduct our business in compliance with applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and economic sanctions or other anti-corruption laws, if we are found to not be in compliance with such laws or other anti-corruption laws, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. this risk increases in locations outside of the u.s., particularly in locations that have not previously had to comply with the fcpa, u.k. bribery act and similar laws. current and changing global economic conditions may adversely affect our business. a number of non-u.s. jurisdictions in which we do business have been negatively impacted by slowing growth rates or recessionary conditions and market volatility. several emerging market economies are particularly vulnerable to the impact of rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, weaker oil and other commodity prices, and large external deficits. while some of these jurisdictions are showing signs of stabilization or recovery, others, such as russia and greece, continue to experience increasing levels of stress and volatility. risks in one country can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in another country or countries. as a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our operations. while the challenging global economic environment has not had a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources, impact our ability to obtain financing in the future, or decrease the value of our assets. our customers could be adversely impacted if economic conditions worsen. our chc segment does not advertise its products like national brand companies and thus is largely dependent on retailer promotional activities to drive sales volume and increase market share. if our customers do not have the ability to invest in store brand promotional activities, our sales may suffer. additionally, while we actively review the credit 34 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors worthiness of our customers and suppliers, we cannot fully predict to what extent they may be negatively impacted by slowing economic growth. the international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates. we report our financial results in u.s. dollars. however, a significant portion of our net sales, assets, indebtedness and other liabilities, and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. these currencies include among others the euro, indian rupee, british pound, canadian dollar, israel shekel, australian dollar, and mexican peso. the addition of omega, a euro-denominated business that will represent a significant portion of our future net sales and earnings and a substantial portion of our net assets, has significantly increased our exposure to changes in the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate. in addition, approximately 25% of omega's sales are in other foreign currencies, with the majority of the product costs for these markets denominated in euros. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. in addition, we may also be exposed to credit risks in some of those markets. we may implement currency hedges or take other actions intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are not successful in mitigating the effects of changes in exchange rates on our business, any such changes could materially impact our results. we operate in jurisdictions that could be affected by economic and political instability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations outside the u.s. could be affected by economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities, unstable governments and legal systems, and inter-governmental disputes. we have significant operations in israel, which has experienced varying degrees of hostility in recent years. doing business in israel and certain other countries involves the following risks: certain countries and international organizations have refused to do business with israel or with israeli companies. we are also precluded from marketing our products to certain countries due to u.s. and israeli regulatory restrictions. international economic sanctions and boycotts of our products could negatively impact our sales and ability to export our products. our facilities in israel are within a conflict zone. if terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to our facilities, our business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, we would need to obtain prior fda approval for a change in manufacturing site. in addition, our insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. certain of our customers or suppliers may decline to travel to israel, which would force us to make alternative arrangements where necessary. the united states department of state has at times issued an advisory regarding travel to these countries. as a result of the state department's advisories, the fda has at various times curtailed or prohibited its inspectors from traveling to inspect facilities. if these inspectors are unable to inspect our facilities, the fda could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities. risks related to litigation and insurance we are or may become involved in lawsuits and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings. we may become involved in lawsuits arising from various commercial matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising/unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product quality/recall issues, environmental remediation issues, and regulatory issues. litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. no assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the future. see item 8. note 14 for more information. 35 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we may be subject to liability if our products violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where our products are distributed. the successful assertion of product liability or other product-related claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and incur substantial legal expenses. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation may suffer. we are a defendant in product liability lawsuits arising out of serious adverse events, including deaths, which occurred in patients taking tysabri . we expect additional product liability lawsuits related to tysabri usage to be filed. tysabri 's distributor, biogen idec, and perrigo will each be responsible for 50% of losses and expenses arising out of any tysabri product liability claims. along with biogen idec, we intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits, however, we cannot predict how these cases will be resolved. adverse results in one or more of these cases could result in substantial monetary judgments. we may face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. while we do not have any material remediation liabilities currently outstanding, we may in the future face liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under or in our currently or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility that we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. the actual or alleged presence of these substances, or the failure to remediate them, could have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on our ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. there can be no assurance that environmental liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on us. our bch segment regularly makes advertising claims regarding the effectiveness of its products, which we are responsible for defending. an unsuccessful defense of product-related claims could result in potentially significant monetary damages and substantial legal expenses. even if a claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation could suffer. third-party patents and other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to bring new products to market and may subject us to potential legal liability, causing us to incur significant costs. the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. as a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products, the ability of our chc and rx pharmaceutical segments to bring new products to market is often limited by third-party patents or proprietary rights and regulatory exclusivity periods awarded on products. the cost and time for us to develop prescription and rx-to-otc switch products is significantly greater than the rest of the new products that we introduce. any failure to bring new products to market in a timely manner without incurring legal liability could cause us to lose market share, and our operating results could suffer. we could have to defend against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. this could require us to incur substantial expense and could divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel. if we are found to have infringed on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or manufacture some products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. additionally, if we choose to settle a dispute through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties that may not be on terms we believe to be acceptable. an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products. at times, our chc or rx pharmaceuticals segments may seek approval to market nda or anda products before the expiration of patents for those products, based upon our belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by our products. in these cases we may face significant patent 36 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors litigation. depending upon a complex analysis of a variety of legal and commercial factors, we may, in certain circumstances, elect to market a generic pharmaceutical product while litigation is pending, before any court decision, or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending, known as an "at risk" launch. the risk involved in an "at risk" launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to the patent holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic version of the product. by electing to proceed in this manner, we could face substantial damages if we receive an adverse final court decision. in the case where a patent holder is able to prove that our infringement was "willful" or "exceptional," under applicable law, the patent holder may be awarded up to three times the amount of its actual damages or we may be required to pay attorneys' fees. the success of certain of our products depends on the effectiveness of measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights and patents. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. we have been issued patents covering certain of our products, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the u.s. any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by us may not provide us with any significant competitive advantages for our products or may even be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees, and consultants. if these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of the insurance we maintain could adversely impact our financial condition. to protect the company against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs, including property, general and product, and directors' and officers' liability. we may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. we are self-insured when insurance is not available or not available at reasonable premiums. risks associated with insurance plans include: insurance costs could increase significantly, or the availability of insurance may decrease, either of which could adversely impact our financial condition; deductible or retention amounts could increase or our coverage could be reduced in the future and to the extent losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we maintained; product liability insurance may not be available to us at an economically reasonable cost (or at all for certain specific products) or our insurance may not adequately cover our liability in connection with product liability claims (see item 8. note 14 for further information related to legal proceedings); and as our business inherently exposes us to claims for injuries allegedly resulting from the use of our products, we may become subject to claims for which we are not adequately insured. unanticipated payment of a large claim may have a material adverse effect on our business. 37 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors tax related risks the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs") may not agree with the conclusion that we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. although we are incorporated in ireland, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("code"). for u.s. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. for perrigo company plc to be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the code, either (i) the former stockholders of perrigo company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our stock by reason of holding shares in perrigo company (the "ownership test") as of the closing of the acquisition or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in ireland after the elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). upon our acquisition of elan, perrigo company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of our shares. as a result, we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, we cannot assure that the irs will agree with our position that the ownership test is satisfied. there is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test. based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that section 7874 of the code likely will limit our and our u.s. affiliates' ability to use their u.s. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset certain u.s. taxable income, if any, generated by the elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the elan acquisition. changes to tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, any of the following could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes: changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the code, the irs treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other irs guidance and legislative proposals aimed at expanding the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence. the office of the revenue commissioners, u.s. congress, the organization for economic co-operation and development, and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of "base erosion and profit shifting", where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. this focus could lead to a change in tax laws in the u.s. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business. any of these changes could have a prospective or retroactive application to us, our shareholders, and affiliates, and could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. our effective tax rate may change in the future, which could adversely impact our future results from operations. a number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, which may impact our future results from operations. these factors include, but are not limited to: 38 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to our interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (such as proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform); changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and repatriation of non-u.s. earnings with respect to which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. the resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. in addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments. the irs audit of fiscal years 2009 and 2010 had previously concluded with the issuance of a statutory notice of deficiency on august 27, 2014. while we had previously agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $8.0 million inclusive of interest in november 2014, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional positions, including transfer pricing, relative to the same fiscal 2009 and 2010 audit. the statutory notice asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $68.9 million, inclusive of interest and penalties. we disagree with the irs's positions asserted in the notice of deficiency. in january 2015, we paid this amount, a prerequisite to being able to contest the irs's positions in u.s. federal court, and in june 2015 we filed a request for a refund. in the event that the irs denies our request for a refund, we intend to contest the irs's asserted positions in u.s. federal court. an unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. the irs is auditing fiscal years 2011 and 2012, and the israel tax authorities are auditing the same period. there are numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. the government programs in israel in which we participate and the tax benefits we receive require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and tax expenses. we receive grants for research and development from the office of the chief scientist in israel's ministry of industry and trade. to continue to be eligible for these grants, our development projects must be approved by the chief scientist on a case-by-case basis. if our development projects are not approved by the chief scientist, we will not receive grants to fund these projects, which would increase research and development costs. the receipt of such grants subjects us to certain restrictions and pre-approval requirements, which may be conditioned on additional royalty payments with rights to transfer intellectual property and/or production abroad. we also receive tax benefits, in particular exemptions and reductions, as a result of the privileged enterprise status of certain existing operations in israel. to be eligible for these tax benefits, we must maintain our privileged enterprise status by meeting conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets located in israel and investing additional equity in itself and its israeli subsidiaries and by meeting projections provided to the regulatory agencies. if we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled, and we could be required to refund the tax benefits already received. these tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. if such benefits are reduced or eliminated in the future, our results of operations will be adversely impacted. 39 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors in fiscal year 2011, israel enacted new tax legislation that reduced the effective tax rate to 10% for 2011 and 2012, 7% for 2013 and 2014, and 6% thereafter for certain qualifying entities that elect to be taxed under the new legislation. this legislation was rescinded as announced in the official gazette on august 5, 2013. the new legislation enacted a 9% rate for certain qualifying entities that elect to be taxed under the new legislation. we have two entities that have previously elected the new tax legislation for years after fiscal 2011. therefore, the above risk is only applicable to us for fiscal year 2011 as statutes remain open for this year. risks related to capital and liquidity our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. we anticipate that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and borrowings available under our credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. our business requires continuous capital investments, and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. additionally, our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect the business. downgrades to our credit ratings may limit our access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs on current or future financing, including via trade payables with vendors. customers' inclination to purchase goods from us may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of our credit ratings. our senior credit facilities, the agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. we also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. if we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities, agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. any default under our senior credit facilities or agreements governing our senior notes or other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. if our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay or refinance our debt or obtain sufficient new financing. there are various maturity dates associated with our credit facilities, senior notes, and other debt facilities. there is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. further, there is no assurance that future refinancing or renegotiation of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt facilities, or additional agreements will not have materially different or more stringent terms. any additional shares we may issue could dilute your ownership in us. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders, and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by the articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights by way of special resolution with respect to any particular allotment of shares. our articles of association contain, as permitted by irish company law, a provision authorizing the board to issue new shares for cash without offering preemption rights. the authorization of the directors to issue shares and the authorization of the waiver of the statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will 40 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. we are incorporated in ireland, and irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014 (the "act"). the act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification of directors. under irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. as a result, shareholders of irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax, and capital acquisitions tax. there is no treaty between ireland and the u.s. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in ireland, the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and be for a final and conclusive sum. an irish court may exercise its right to refuse to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice, or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. an irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. judgments of u.s. courts of liabilities predicated upon u.s. federal securities laws may not be enforced by irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in ireland. we are subject to irish takeover rules under which our board of directors is not permitted to take any action without irish takeover panel approval that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once we have received an approach that may lead to an offer, or have reason to believe an offer is imminent. further, it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction than if we were a u.s. company because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under irish law. we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends in the future. a number of factors may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future, including: the availability of distributable reserves, as approved by our shareholders and the irish high court; our ability to receive cash dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries; compliance with applicable laws and covenants; and our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risk we are a global company with operations throughout north america, europe, australia, and israel. we transact business in each location's local currency and in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposures to changes in exchange rates. our largest exposure is the movement of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro, which has increased significantly since the omega acquisition. in addition, our u.s. operations continue to expand their export business, primarily in canada, china, and europe, and are subject to fluctuations in the respective exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. a large portion of the sales of our israeli operations is in foreign currencies, primarily u.s. dollars and euros, while these operations largely incur costs in their local currency. further, a portion of biogen idec's global sales of tysabri are denominated in local currencies creating exposures to changes in exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar and thereby impacting the amount of u.s. dollar royalties we receive. due to different sales and cost structures, certain segments experience a negative impact and certain segments a positive impact as a result of changes in exchange rates. we estimate a ten percent devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to the other foreign currencies in which we transact business would have increased operating income of our non-u.s. operating units by approximately $33.8 million for fiscal year 2015 . this sensitivity analysis has inherent limitations. the analysis disregards the possibility that rates of multiple foreign currencies will not always move in the same direction relative to the value of the u.s. dollar over time and does not account for foreign exchange derivatives that we utilize to mitigate fluctuations in exchange rates. in addition, we enter into certain purchase commitments for materials that, although denominated in u.s. dollars, are linked to foreign currency valuations. these commitments generally contain a range for which the price of materials may fluctuate over time given the value of a foreign currency. the translation of the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated operations is made using local currency exchange rates as of the end of the year. translation adjustments are not included in determining net income but are disclosed in accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci") within shareholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheets until a sale or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the subsidiary takes place. in certain markets, we could recognize a significant gain or loss related to unrealized cumulative translation adjustments if we were to exit the market and liquidate our net investment. as of june 27, 2015 , cumulative net currency translation adjustments increased shareholders' equity by $130.9 million . foreign currency transaction gains and losses arise from monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than an operating unit's functional currency. our net transaction gains were $8.6 million for fiscal year 2015 . we monitor and strive to manage risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. exposures that cannot be naturally offset within a local entity to an immaterial amount are often hedged with foreign exchange derivatives or netted with offsetting exposures at other entities. seerisk factors 23 risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition. branded consumer healthcare overview we established the bch segment during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended june 27, 2015, and it is comprised primarily of branded otc sales attributable to omega. the bch segment develops, manufactures, markets, and distributes many well-known european otc brands in the natural health and vms, cough, cold and allergy, personal care and derma-therapeutics, lifestyle, smoking cessation, and anti-parasite categories. in addition, the segment leverages its broad regulatory, sales, and distribution infrastructure to in-license and sell non-owned brands and generic pharmaceutical products. the bch segment distributes these products through an extensive network of pharmacies in 36 countries, primarily in europe. many bch products are top sellers in the markets in which they compete. during the six months ended december 31, 2015 , the bch segment represented approximately 23% of consolidated net sales. through continued investment in r&amp;d and new technologies, the bch segment strives to offer high quality products that meet consumers' needs. the combination of internal r&amp;d, in-licensing, acquisitions, and partnerships support the product pipeline, both in terms of brand expansion and product improvement. currently, most r&amp;d is performed by external partners with oversight by our teams. the segment has seven plants dedicated to manufacturing certain of its products, but over 70% of its production is outsourced to third parties. we plan to bring some of the segment's r&amp;d and manufacturing in-house as we integrate omega into perrigo operations. unlike the chc segment, which develops and markets store brand products, the bch segment focuses on building brands. in many markets outside of the u.s., a brand marketing strategy can be more effective than a store brand strategy due to the absence of mass merchandisers and pharmacy chains, and because consumer acceptance of store brands is not as developed as it is in the u.s. additionally, the absence of a centralized regulatory environment within europe adds to the complexity of obtaining approvals for products in these markets. 7 perrigo company plc - item 1 bch while the bch segment sells products from over 300 brands both on its own and through third parties, it focuses its resources on its "top 20 brands", which are selected on the basis of their current sales and growth potential in the otc market. additional resources are allocated to these brands to build strong positions in the largest, most highly profitable categories in the otc market, while maintaining leadership in smaller branded categories. recent developments on september 15, 2015 , we completed our acquisition of naturwohl, a munich, germany-based nutritional business known for its leading german dietary supplement brand, yokebe , for 133.5 million ( $150.4 million ) in cash. on august 28, 2015 , we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of well-established otc brands from gsk for 200.0 million ( $223.4 million ) in cash. the portfolio included smoking cessation products, cold and flu treatments, pain relief products, nasal decongestants, and cold sore management products sold primarily in europe. both acquisitions built upon the global platform we established through the omega acquisition and expanded our market share in the european otc market. products below are the categories in which the bch segment competes and some of the top brands in each category. product category description top 20 brands natural health and vms vitamins, minerals, supplements, and various other natural remedies. biover /abtei davitamon /etixx granufink /bional cough, cold, and allergy products that address respiratory symptoms, including traditional medications and alternative treatments such as aromatherapy and homeopathic solutions. bittner /aflubin bronchodual physiomer phytosun /valda prevalin /beconase solpadeine /antigrippine personal care and derma-therapeutics products for the face and body, including sun care, baby-specific, and feminine hygiene products, and solutions for various skin conditions and allergies such as eczema, psoriasis and rosacea. aco bodysol /galenco dermalex (repair) lactacyd wartner lifestyle weight management, pregnancy and fertility kits, pain relief, sleep management, smoking cessation, and eye care. paravet /cl ment-th kan predictor silence /nytol xls (medical) anti-parasite products focused on the elimination of parasites in both humans and pets including lice treatment and insect repellent. jungle formula paranix certain brands are considered "combination brands", as they are marketed under different names depending on the market in which they are sold. for these combination brands, we select the most appropriate products from each product line for the country where they will be marketed, then adopt the brand name that best matches local consumer preference. we launched a number of new bch products in the six months ended december 31, 2015 , most notably lifestyle products such as xls max strength and cough and cold products such as bronchostop . new product sales during the six months ended december 31, 2015 totaled $62.6 million . during 2016, the bch segment will focus on re-invigorating growth behind the newly acquired gsk brands niquitin and coldrex and rolling out the yokebe meal replacement range across europe. the bch segment has more than 50 strategic new products in five product categories in development, with each of its top 20 brands having a five-year innovation master plan. 8 perrigo company plc - item 1 bch sales and marketing our customers include pharmacies, drug, and grocery stores located primarily in europe, including boots, asda, tesco, dm, rossmann, etos, and kruidvat. the bch segment sells its products through an established pharmacy sales force and an extensive network of pharmacists. our sales representatives visit pharmacists daily, ensuring strong in-store visibility of our brands and facilitating pharmacist education programs. our sales, marketing, and regulatory teams use training/merchandising teams to work in conjunction with base sales representatives to identify, implement, and defend healthcare claims for key products. we seek to attract key talent personnel from leading otc, fast moving consumer goods ("fmcg"), and rx companies to build strong local teams throughout the countries in which the bch segment operates. while bch products have a higher average gross margin than products sold by the chc segment, selling expenses are significantly higher for our bch products due to the sales force mentioned above, as well as targeted advertising and promotional spending to enhance brand equity. key marketing communication tools include tv commercials, consumer leaflets, product websites, and targeted promotional campaigns. competition the competitive landscape of the european otc market is highly fragmented, as local companies often hold leadership positions in individual product segments in particular countries. as a result, the relevant competition in each of the bch segment's markets is mostly local, with reckitt benckiser, boehringer ingelheim, novartis, and johnson &amp; johnson as additional regional competitors. we believe our key advantage lies in our unique combination of best practices in sales, marketing, and product development from fmcg and otc/rx, while embracing the pharmacy channel to drive self-care. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition. prescription pharmaceuticals overview the rx segment develops, manufactures, and markets a portfolio of generic and specialty pharmaceutical prescription drugs primarily for the u.s. and u.k. markets. we define this portfolio as predominantly "extended topical" and "specialty" as it encompasses a broad array of topical dosage forms such as creams, ointments, lotions, gels, shampoos, foams, suppositories, sprays, liquids, suspensions, solutions, and powders. the portfolio also includes select controlled substances, injectables, hormones, women's health products, oral solid dosage forms, and oral liquid formulations. during the six months ended december 31, 2015 , the rx segment represented approximately 20% of consolidated net sales. our current development areas include other delivery systems such as oral liquids, metered dose inhalers, injectables, and transdermal products, some of which we are developing with third parties. our other areas of expertise include our production capabilities for controlled substance and hormonal products. in the u.s., r&amp;d efforts focus on complex formulations, many of which require costly clinical endpoint trials. in the u.k., r&amp;d focuses on oral liquid formulations for the branded rx products for which liquid formulations are not available. we manufacture our topical, specialty, and oral products in the u.s., israel, and u.k., and also source from various fda-approved third parties. rx products are manufactured, labeled, and packaged in facilities that comply with strict regulatory standards and meet customers' stringent requirements. in addition, the rx segment offers otc products through the prescription channel (referred to as "orx ", these products are marketed using the perrigo name). orx products are otc products that are available for pharmacy fulfillment and healthcare reimbursement when prescribed by a physician. we offer numerous orx products that are reimbursable through many health plans and the u.s. medicaid and medicare programs. we actively collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies to develop, manufacture, and market certain products or groups of products. these types of agreements are common in the pharmaceutical industry. we may choose to enter into these types of agreements to, among other things, leverage our or our collaborators' scientific r&amp;d expertise, or utilize our extensive marketing and distribution resources. see item 8. note 1 for more 9 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx pharmaceuticals information regarding our method for recognizing revenue and expenses related to collaboration agreements, as well as item 8. note 17 for more information regarding our current collaboration agreements. recent developments on january 22, 2016 , we closed on the acquisition of a portfolio of generic dosage forms and strengths of retin-a (tretinoin), which is a topical prescription acne treatment, from matawan pharmaceuticals, llc, for $415.0 million in cash. we were the authorized generic distributor of these products from 2005 to 2013 before the agreement was terminated. the acquisition complemented our rx portfolio, furthering our "extended topicals" strategy. on december 15, 2015 , we completed our acquisition of entocort (budesonide) capsules, as well as the authorized generic capsules currently marketed by par pharmaceuticals, for sale within the u.s., from astrazeneca plc for $380.2 million in cash. entocort is a gastroenterology medicine for patients with mild to moderate crohn's disease, and the acquisition complemented our rx portfolio. products listed below are some of the generic prescription products, including authorized generic and orx products, that we manufacture and/or distribute: generic name (1) comparative brand-name drug adapalene cream differin bacitracin ophthalmic ointment n/a benzoyl peroxide 5% - clindamycin 1% gel (2) benzaclin tm budesonide (2) entocort (2) clindamycin foam evoclin clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel duac clobetasol foam, lotion and shampoo olux , olux-e , clobex desonide cream, ointment desonate , tridesilon dihydroergotamine injection d.h.e. 45 halobetasol ointment and cream ultravate hydrocortisone suppositories n/a mupirocin ointment bactroban nystatin topical powder mycostatin permethrin cream elimite potassium chloride (2) klor-con tacrolimus protopic testosterone 1% gel androgel testosterone cypionate injection depo , testosterone triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray nasacort aq triamcinolone cream/ointment triderm /kenalog (1) contains the same active ingredients present in the same dosage form as the comparable brand-name drug (2) new product launched during the six months ended december 31, 2015 . net sales related to new products were $43.0 million and $41.0 million for the six months ended december 31, 2015 and december 27, 2014 , respectively, and $119.0 million , $106.4 million , and $48.6 million for the fiscal years ended june 27, 2015 , june 28, 2014 , and june 29, 2013 , respectively. during the six months ended december 31, 2015 , we, on our own or in collaboration with partners, received final approval from global health authorities for 10 rx drug applications, and as of december 31, 2015 , we had 59 rx drug applications pending approval. 10 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx pharmaceuticals sales and marketing our customers include major wholesalers, including cardinal health, mckesson, and amerisourcebergen; sourcing groups such as red oak; national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, including walgreens/rite aid, walmart, cvs, kroger, and safeway; hospitals; and pharmacies. orx products are sold to the consumer through the pharmacy counter of predominantly the same retail outlets as our otc pharmaceutical and nutritional products. in addition, we have a small specialty sales force consisting of representatives who visit healthcare professionals to educate them on the unique clinical characteristics and benefits of our branded products. we are broadening our direct to physician promotional capabilities by expanding our field sales team and other internal resources. our branded pharmaceutical team continues to invest in the women's health, ophthalmic, and dermatology therapeutic areas. competition the market for rx products is subject to intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies launching their own generic version of their branded products (known as an authorized generic), manufacturers of branded drug products that continue to produce those products after patent expirations, and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. among our generic drug manufacturer competitors are allergan plc, apotex corp., glenmark generics inc., impax laboratories, inc., mylan, prasco, llc, sandoz, sun pharmaceuticals, taro pharmaceuticals, teva pharmaceutical industries ltd., triax pharmaceuticals, llc, and zydus pharmaceuticals, inc. we believe that one of our primary competitive advantages is our ability to introduce difficult to develop and/or manufacture topical and other specialty generic versions to brand-name drug products. generally, these products are exposed to less competition due to the relatively longer and more expensive development, clinical trial, and approval processes. in addition, we believe we have a favorable competitive position due primarily to our efficient distribution systems, topical production economies of scale, customer service, and overall reputation. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for more information and risks associated with competition. specialty sciences overview the specialty sciences segment is comprised primarily of assets focused on the treatment of multiple sclerosis, specifically in connection with the drug tysabri (natalizumab). we are entitled to royalty payments from biogen idec inc. ("biogen") based on its tysabri sales in all indications and geographies. we received royalties of 12% on worldwide biogen sales of tysabri from december 18, 2013 through april 30, 2014. beginning on may 1, 2014, we received, and going forward we will receive, royalties of 18% on annual worldwide biogen sales of tysabri up to $2.0 billion and 25% on annual sales above $2.0 billion . during the six months ended december 31, 2015 , specialty sciences represented approximately 6% of consolidated net sales. competition tysabri is a complex biological product, with the majority of its patents protected through 2024, and is administered under a strict risk and evaluation mitigation strategy ("rems") program. in the event that the patent is invalidated or is infringed upon and a biosimilar is introduced, the financial performance of our specialty sciences segment would be materially adversely affected. tysabri competes with many companies that are working to develop successful new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis. if any of these competing products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience, or safety, future sales of tysabri could be limited. however, the competition may be limited in its product development as tysabri is administered under an fda-approved rems programs. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for related risks. 11 perrigo company plc - item 1 other other overview we have an other segment that is comprised of api products, which does not meet the quantitative threshold required to be a separately reportable segment. we develop, manufacture, and market api products, which are used worldwide by both generic and branded pharmaceutical companies. certain of these ingredients are used in our own pharmaceutical products. the manufacturing of api occurs primarily in israel with some production in india. api development is focused on the synthesis of less common molecules for the u.s., european, and other global markets. we commercialize api that are critical to our pharmaceutical customers' existing portfolios and future product launches, working closely with these customers on development processes. we are also focusing manufacturing and development activities on the synthesis of molecules for use in our own otc and rx pipeline products. this vertical integration may enable us to be more competitive in the pricing of our product lines. because our api customers depend on high quality supply and regulatory support, we focus on rigorous quality assurance, quality control, and regulatory compliance as part of our strategic positioning. our quality system is designed to comply with the regulatory requirements of the fda, the european medicines agency ("ema"), and other regulatory agencies such as the australian therapeutic goods administration. we are regularly inspected by various regulatory authorities and customers. recent developments we are pursuing the sale of our api business based in india and expect the sale to take place during 2016. as of december 31, 2015, we reclassified india's net assets to "held for sale" as discussed in item 8. note 9 . competition since other manufacturers of api typically do not offer all of the same product lines or serve all of the same markets as we do, the business competes on a product-by-product basis with a number of different competitors. our api category is subject to increased price competition from other manufacturers of api located mostly in india, china, and europe. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for information and risks associated with competition. information applicable to all reportable segments research and development r&amp;d is a key component of our business strategy and, while managed centrally, is performed in various locations in the countries in which we operate. while we conduct a significant amount of our own r&amp;d, we also enter into strategic alliance agreements to obtain the rights to manufacture and/or distribute new products. r&amp;d spending was $88.2 million and $89.8 million for the six months ended december 31, 2015 , and december 27, 2014 , respectively, and $187.8 million , $152.5 million , and $115.2 million for the fiscal years ended june 27, 2015 , june 28, 2014 , and june 29, 2013 , respectively. in addition, we wrote off in-process research and development from previous acquisitions totaling $6.0 million during the fiscal year ended june 28, 2014 and $9.0 million during the fiscal year ended june 29, 2013 due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for various projects. the six months ended december 31, 2015 included incremental r&amp;d expense due to the omega acquisition. the six months ended december 27, 2014 included a $10.0 million payment made in connection with our entry into a collaboration arrangement. the fiscal year ended june 27, 2015 also included incremental r&amp;d expense due to the omega acquisition, as well as the payment made in relation to the collaboration arrangement noted above, and an r&amp;d contractual arrangement under which we funded $18.0 million of r&amp;d. the fiscal year ended june 28, 2014 included incremental r&amp;d expense attributable to the sergeant's pet care products, inc. ("sergeant's") and velcera inc. ("velcera") acquisitions that closed during the previous fiscal year, as well as r&amp;d 12 perrigo company plc - item 1 expense related to the elnd005 phase 2 clinical program in collaboration with transition therapeutics, inc. ("transition"), which we acquired from elan. we ended our collaboration with transition during the third quarter of the fiscal year ended june 28, 2014 and are no longer responsible for ongoing development activities and costs associated with elnd005. the fiscal year ended june 29, 2013 included incremental r&amp;d expenses attributable to the acquisition of sergeant's, velcera, and rosemont pharmaceuticals ltd. see item 8. note 2 and item 8. note 17 for more information on the acquisitions, collaboration arrangement, and r&amp;d contractual arrangement noted above. we anticipate that r&amp;d expenditures will increase in dollar terms but will remain relatively flat to slightly higher as a percentage of net sales fo r the foreseeable future as we continue to cultivate our presence in the rx-to-otc switch and generic pharmaceutical markets, and develop our internal r&amp;d capabilities. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with innovation and r&amp;d. trademarks and patents while we own certain trademarks and patents, neither our business as a whole, nor any of our segments, is materially dependent upon our ownership of any one trademark or patent or group of trademarks or patents. materials sourcing affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets, and components are limited, or are available from one or only a few suppliers. while we have the ability to manufacture and supply certain api for our otc and rx products, an increasing number of components and finished goods are purchased rather than manufactured because of temporary production limitations, fda restrictions, economic conditions, or other factors. historically, we have been able to react effectively to situations that require alternate sourcing. should alternate sourcing be necessary, fda requirements placed on products approved through the anda or nda process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. we believe we have good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of our suppliers and have historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to our volume of purchases. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with materials sourcing. manufacturing and distribution our primary manufacturing facilities are in the u.s. and israel. we also have secondary manufacturing facilities in the u.k., belgium, france, germany, austria, mexico, australia, and india, along with a joint venture in china. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with our manufacturing facilities. we supplement our production capabilities with the purchase of products from outside sources. the capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times for various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of the cough/cold/flu, allergy, or flea and tick seasons, and new product launches. we may utilize available capacity by performing contract manufacturing for other companies. we have logistics facilities in the u.s., israel, mexico, australia, and numerous locations throughout europe. we use contract freight and common carriers to deliver our products. 13 perrigo company plc - item 1 significant customers our primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current global retail drug industry marketplace. walmart is our largest customer and accounted for 13% of consolidated net sales for the six months ended december 31, 2015 , 15% for the fiscal year ended june 27, 2015 , and 19% for both the fiscal years ended june 28, 2014 and june 29, 2013 . sales to walmart are primarily in the chc segment. as a percentage of our total u.s. otc sales, our sales to walmart closely align with walmart's u.s. retail market share. while we do not anticipate a change in the foreseeable future, should our current relationship with walmart change adversely, the resulting loss of business could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated and chc segment operating results and financial position. in addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of total net sales, we do have other significant customers. we believe we generally have good relationships with all of our customers. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with customers. seasonality historically we have been impacted by seasonal demand and consumer dynamics in the retail environment in which our customers operate. sales of otc pharmaceutical products in the chc segment are typically subject to seasonal demands for cough/cold/flu products from september through march and allergy products from april through september. our bch segment's sales are also impacted by seasonality and tend to peak in april through june due to increased demand for seasonal health and wellness products. in addition, our animal health products are subject to seasonal demand for flea and tick products that typically peaks during the warmer weather months, from march through june. our rx, specialty sciences, and other segments' sales are not generally impacted by seasonal conditions. accordingly, operating results for the six months ended december 31, 2015 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for a full year. environmental we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. we have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws, but do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations have been or will be material to our business. we do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding. while we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term. corporate social responsibility we are committed to doing business in an ethical manner. we also have a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where we are located. as reflected in our corporate social responsibility commitment statement available on our website, we remain committed to: helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable healthcare products; strong corporate governance; complying with regulatory and legal requirements; demonstrating environmental stewardship; continuously improving packaging sustainability; protecting human rights of our global employees and challenging our partners to do the same; providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; diversity and gender equality of our board of directors, management, and employees; and establishing effective community partnerships. 14 perrigo company plc - item 1 through these efforts, we strive to minimize our impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices, and ensure the welfare of our employees, their families, and the communities in which we operate now and into the future. government regulation and pricing the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. in addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. we believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for related risks. united states regulation u.s. food and drug administration the fda has jurisdiction over our anda, nda, drug efficacy implementation, and otc monograph drug products, infant formulas, dietary supplements, food products, and medical devices. the fda's jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of these products. we are committed to consistently providing our customers with high quality products that adhere to "current good manufacturing practices" ("cgmp") regulations promulgated by the fda. otc and rx pharmaceuticals all facilities where rx and otc drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed for the u.s. market must comply with fda cgmps and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries, states and localities where the facilities are located. all of our drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cgmp regulations. the fda performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. many of our otc pharmaceutical products are regulated under the otc monograph system and subject to certain fda regulations. under this system, selected otc drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the submission and approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing. drug products marketed under the otc monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula, and labeling requirements, including permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients, and dosage levels. it is generally less costly to develop and bring to market a product regulated under the otc monograph system. we also market generic prescription drugs and other products that have switched from prescription to otc status. prior to commercial marketing, these products require approval by the fda of an anda or nda that provides information on chemistry, manufacturing controls, clinical safety, efficacy and/or bioequivalence, packaging, and labeling. while the development process for a generic drug generally requires less time and expense than the development process for a new drug, the size and duration of required studies can vary greatly. the current average anda approval time is approximately 42 months from the date an anda is submitted. nda approvals are typically achieved in 12 months or less. changes to a product marketed under an anda or nda are governed by specific fda regulations and guidelines that define when proposed changes can be implemented and whether prior fda notice and/or approval is required. under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended ("ffdca") (the hatch-waxman amendments), a company submitting an nda can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for a prescription or otc product if it performs a clinical study that is essential to fda approval. longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs (those designated under section 526 of the ffdca) and drugs under the generating antibiotic incentives now act. during this exclusivity period, the fda cannot approve any andas for a similar or equivalent generic product, which can preclude us from marketing a similar product during this period. a company may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity if it conducts pediatric studies requested by the fda on the product. this exclusivity can delay both the fda approval and sales of certain products. 15 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation a company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for certain products. this exclusivity period often follows a patent certification and litigation process whereby the product innovator may sue for infringement. the legal action does not ordinarily result in material damages, but it generally triggers a statutorily mandated delay in fda approval of the anda for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge. the food and drug administration safety and innovation act ("fdasia") was signed into law on july 9, 2012. the law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, fda authority concerning drug shortages, changes to enhance the fda's inspection authority of the drug supply chain, and a limited extension of the 30-month stay provision described above. the fdasia also reduced the time required for fda responses to generic-blocking citizen petitions. we implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of the fdasia, and we monitor facility self-identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications. the u.s. government's federal drug supply chain security act ("dscsa") requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. the serialization of all rx products distributed in the u.s. needs to be completed by november 27, 2017, with the requirement for tracking the products commencing on november 27, 2023. requirements for the tracing of products at the lot level through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain went into effect on january 1, 2015 for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. infant formula and foods the fda's center for food safety and applied nutrition is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. the office of nutrition, labeling and dietary supplements ("onlds") has labeling responsibility for infant formula, while the office of food additive safety ("ofas") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. the onlds evaluates whether an infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the ffdca and consults with the ofas regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula. all manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. the infant formula act provides specific requirements for infant formula to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum and, in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients. before marketing a particular infant formula, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation consistent with the fda's labeling, nutrient content, and manufacturer quality control requirements. a manufacturer must notify the fda at least 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. we actively monitor this process and make the appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with recent fda rules regarding cgmp, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records for the production of infant formulas. in addition, the ffdca requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life; to keep records on production, testing, and distribution of each batch of infant formula; to use cgmp and quality control procedures; and to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which may reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. the fda conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula, inspects new facilities during early production runs, and collects and analyzes samples of infant formula. our infant and toddler foods are subject to the food safety modernization act ("fsma"), which protects the safety of u.s. foods by mandating comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. under fsma, the fda has mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers and is taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of a safety issue. 16 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation dietary supplements manufactured in the u.s. the dietary supplement health and education act of 1994 ("dshea") amended the ffdca to, among other things: define dietary supplements and dietary ingredients; require ingredient and nutrition labeling for dietary supplements; permit "structure/function" statements for dietary supplements; permit the display of certain published literature where supplements are sold; authorize the fda to establish gmps specifically for dietary supplements, which it did in 2007; and require the submission of new dietary ingredient notifications to the fda. under dshea, the fda specified that all supplements must bear a "supplement facts" box, which lists all of the supplement's dietary ingredients using fda-specified nomenclature. dshea also permits dietary supplements to bear statements: claiming a benefit related to a classical nutrient deficiency disease, provided the prevalence of the disease in the u.s. is disclosed; describing the role of a nutrient or dietary ingredient intended to affect the structure or function in humans; characterizing the documented mechanism by which a nutrient or dietary ingredient acts to maintain such structure or function; and describing general well-being from consumption of a nutrient or dietary ingredient. we are subject to regulations published by the fda clarifying the types of "structure function" statements permissible in dietary supplement labeling. such statements cannot expressly or implicitly state that a dietary supplement has any effect on a "disease." as with foods in general, dietary supplement labeling may include a "health claim," which characterizes the role of a nutrient to a disease or health-related condition. the dshea requires that the fda be notified at least 75 days in advance of the introduction of a dietary supplement that contains a new dietary ingredient that was not marketed before october 15, 1994. the notification must provide information establishing that the dietary supplement containing the dietary ingredient will be reasonably expected to be safe. our u.s. dietary supplement facilities have been inspected by the fda and are operating in compliance with dietary supplement cgmps. active pharmaceutical ingredients we develop and manufacture api in israel and india for export to the u.s. and other global markets. before api can be commercialized in the u.s., we must submit a drug master file ("dmf") that provides the proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. the fda inspects the manufacturing facilities to assess cgmp compliance, and the facilities and procedures must be cgmp compliant before api may be exported to the u.s. the facilities and products are subject to regulation by the applicable regulatory bodies in the place of manufacture as well as the regulatory agency in the country from which the product is exported. our israeli facility has been approved by the u.s. fda, israel ministry of health ("imoh"), federal commission for the protection against sanitary risks of mexico, pharmaceutical and medical devices agency of japan, and the korean food and drug administration and has received gmp certification from imoh. our india facility has been inspected by the u.s. fda and has received gmp certification from the indian fda. for api exported to european markets, we submit a european dmf and, where applicable, obtain a certificate of suitability from the european directorate for the quality of medicines. the manufacturing facilities and production procedures for api marketed in europe must meet eu-gmp and european pharmacopeia standards. 17 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation u.s. department of agriculture the organic foods production act enacted under title 21 of the 1990 farm bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic." our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio adhere to the standards of the u.s. department of agriculture ("usda") national organic program for the production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio are usda-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for u.s. and canadian markets. u.s. environmental protection agency the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") is the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show that their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. u.s. drug enforcement administration the u.s. drug enforcement administration ("dea") regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, and list i chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal controlled substances act ("csa"). the csa and dea regulations impose registration, security, record keeping, reporting, storage, manufacturing, distribution, importation and other requirements upon legitimate handlers under the oversight of the dea. the dea categorizes controlled substances into schedules i, ii, iii, iv, or v, with varying qualifications for listing in each schedule. we are subject to the requirements regarding the controlled substances in schedules ii - v and the list i chemicals. our facilities that manufacture, distribute, import, or export any controlled substances must register annually with the dea. the dea inspects all manufacturing facilities to review security, record keeping, reporting, and handling prior to issuing a controlled substance registration, and it also periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the csa and its regulations. failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements, particularly as manifested in the loss or diversion of controlled substances, can result in enforcement action, such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registration, or the initiation of proceedings to revoke those registrations. in certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal prosecution. we are also subject to state legislation regulating the manufacture and distribution of certain products. medicaid drug rebate program and other drug pricing programs u.s. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of having federal funds being made available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b, enter into a rebate agreement with the u.s. government to pay rebates to state medicaid programs for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program. we have such a rebate agreement in effect. the centers for medicare and medicaid services ("cms") is responsible for administering the medicaid rebate agreements. we pay rebates on the utilization under fee-for-service arrangements as well as through medicaid managed care organizations. the medicaid rebate agreement provides that the drug manufacturer will remit rebates to each state medicaid agency on a quarterly basis based on pricing data reported by the manufacturer to cms, including average manufacturer price ("amp") and, in the case of innovator products, best price ("bp"). we report amp on a monthly and quarterly basis and bp on a quarterly basis. the minimum rebate amounts due are as follows: for noninnovator products, in general generic drugs marketed under andas, the rebate amount is 13% of the amp for the quarter; for innovator products, in general brand-name products marketed under ndas, the rebate amount is the greater of 23.1% of the amp for the quarter or the difference between such amp and the bp for that same quarter. manufacturers also pay an additional rebate on innovator drugs where price increases since launch have 18 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation outpaced inflation. beginning with the first quarter of 2017, an additional rebate is due for noninnovator products, which is calculated somewhat differently from the innovator product additional rebate. under health reform legislation enacted in 2010 (the "health reform law"), cms is preparing to use amps to calculate a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates to pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ("ful"). cms has been publishing draft fuls based on reported amps. cms also surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. on february 1, 2016, cms issued a final regulation to implement the changes to the medicaid drug rebate program under the health reform law. this regulation becomes effective on april 1, 2016. u.s. law also requires that a company that participates in the medicaid rebate program report average sales price ("asp") information to cms for each calendar quarter for certain categories of drugs that are paid under part b of the medicare program. cms uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under medicare part b. pricing and rebate calculations are governed by statutory and regulatory requirements that are complex, vary among products and programs, can change over time, and are subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies , and the courts. in the case of the medicaid rebate program, if we become aware of errors in our prior price submissions, or a prior bp submission needs to be updated due to late arriving data, we must resubmit the updated data for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally was due. such restatements and recalculations increase our cost of compliance with the medicaid rebate program, and corrections can result in an overage or underage of our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. u.s. law requires any company that participates in the medicaid rebate program to also participate in the public health service's 340b drug pricing program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b. the 340b drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340b ceiling price for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. the ceiling price is derived from the data the manufacturer reports under the medicaid rebate program and therefore any changes to statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to the medicaid price figures may impact the 340b ceiling price calculation as well. 340b covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the public health service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. u.s. law also requires any company that participates in the medicaid rebate program and medicare part b and that wants its covered drugs paid for by certain federal agencies and grantees participate in the department of veterans affairs ("va") federal supply schedule ( fss ) pricing program. accordingly, we must enter into an fss contract with the va, whereby our "covered drugs" are available to the va, the department of defense, the public health service, and the coast guard at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price ( fcp ). in addition to the veterans health care act of 1992 requirements, fss contracts include extensive disclosure and certification requirements and standard government terms and conditions with which we must comply. we also have a section 703 agreement under which we pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to tricare beneficiaries by tricare network retail pharmacies. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks related to the above-mentioned programs. other u.s. regulations and organizations we are subject to various other national, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: 19 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation physician payment sunshine act - this act requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977 ("fcpa") - this act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. federal trade commission ("ftc") - this agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. the ftc considers whether a product's claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. the ftc also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. nsf international ("nsf") - the nsf is an independent, not-for-profit, non-governmental organization that provides risk management services for public health and safety. many of our dietary supplement products are certified under nsf/ansi standard 173. international organization for standardization ("iso") - the iso standards specify requirements for a quality management system that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. our infant formula manufacturing sites are iso 9001-2008 certified for quality management systems. iso inspections are conducted at least annually. united states pharmacopeial convention, inc. ("usp") - the usp is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. by reference, the ffdca incorporates the usp quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product's labeling. usp standards exist for most rx and otc pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. the fda typically requires usp compliance as part of cgmp compliance. health insurance portability and accountability act ("hipaa") - we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. consumer product safety commission ("cpsc") - the cpsc has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. the manufacturer of any product that is subject to any cpsc rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with cpsc requirements. other state agencies - we are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state. regulation outside the u.s. we develop and manufacture products and market third-party manufactured products in regions outside the u.s., including russia, south africa, israel, mexico, and australia, as well as countries in asia, south america, the middle east, and eastern and western europe, each of which has its own regulatory environment. the majority of our sales outside the u.s. are in the following categories: otc/rx pharmaceuticals, medical devices, dietary supplements (including vms) and cosmetics. 20 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation european union otc and rx pharmaceuticals the european pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the european parliament and the european commission. this has many benefits, including the potential to harmonize standards across the complex european market. however, obtaining regulatory agreement across member states presents complex challenges that can lead to delays in the regulatory process. in the european union ( eu ), as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of medicinal products is regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the u.s. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any medicinal product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. the registration file relating to any particular product must contain data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and / or references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. between 1995 and 1998, the over-arching legislation that governs medicinal products was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. this revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition procedure ( mrp ), whereby after approval of a marketing authorization by regulatory authorities in the reference member state ( rms ), additional marketing authorizations could be submitted to other concerned member states to obtain a product license. in november 2005, the medicinal product legislation was further revised to introduce the decentralized procedure ( dcp ) whereby marketing authorizations are submitted simultaneously to the rms and select concerned member states. in 2005, the ema also opened up the centralized procedure to sponsors of marketing authorizations for generic medicinal products. unlike the mrp and dcp, the centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization and product labeling across all member states that will allow a sponsor to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the eu countries listed on the application. marketing authorizations and subsequent product licenses are granted to applicants only after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product. in addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer's facilities obtain approval from an eu regulatory authority. the eu has a code of gmp that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. regulatory authorities in the eu may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems, and personnel qualifications. we believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject. some elements of the european falsified medicines directive (the directive ) were enacted into national laws during 2013. the provisions of the directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of api manufactured outside of the eu. the directive required the serialization of all rx and some otc products, similar to the dscsa in the u.s. in the eu, member states regulate the pricing of prescription medicinal products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. this regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. these individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. the implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally tendering refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country. data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, although the application is not uniform. in general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. as these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. 21 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation the requirements deriving from european pharmacovigilance legislation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors' expectations. pharmacovigilance fee legislation became effective in late 2014 to support health authority assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals. once approved, the advertising of pharmaceuticals in the eu is governed by national regulations and guidelines. within certain member states this is overseen by a self-certification process whereas in others national governance bodies approve material prior to release. medical devices the eu has enacted into law numerous directives and adopted many harmonizing standards pertaining to a wide range of industrial products, including medical devices. medical devices that comply with the requirements of applicable directives are entitled to bear the ce marking of conformity, which indicates that the device conforms to the applicable requirements of the directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout europe. the method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an organization accredited by a member state. assessment by a notified body includes an audit of the manufacturer's quality system and may also include specific testing of the product. this assessment is a prerequisite for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the eu. dietary supplements (including vms) dietary supplements are subject to several regulations that inform the selection of ingredient levels and how products can be described on packaging and in advertising. these regulations include: food supplements directive 2002/46/ec, food information to consumers regulation (eu) no 1169/2011, permitted vitamins and minerals regulation (ec) 1170/2009, food additives regulation (ec) 1333/2008, and nutritional &amp; health claims regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, and starting in july 2016, the foods intended for particular nutritional uses directive 2009/39/ec &amp; regulation (eu) 609/2013. eu rules on nutrition and health claims, which were established by regulation ec 1924/2006, apply to any nutritional or health claim by a manufacturer. the objective of the regulation is to ensure that claims made in food labeling or advertising are clear, accurate and based on scientific evidence. the european food safety authority, an advisory panel to the european commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. an eu register of nutrition and health claims exists to document approved, pending, and rejected claims. cosmetics cosmetic products in the eu market must comply with regulation ec no. 1223/2009. this regulation requires manufacturers to prepare a product safety report prior to placing a cosmetic product in the market. in addition, for each cosmetic product placed in the market, a responsible person must be designated to oversee compliance with the regulation's reporting requirements. commission regulation eu no. 655/2013 establishes the common criteria and justification for claims to be used in the packaging and advertising of cosmetics products. employees as of december 31, 2015 we had approximately 13,300 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 2,700 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. the majority of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are located in europe, mexico, and israel. we consider our employee relations generally satisfactory. available information our principal executive offices are located at the treasury building, lower grand canal street, dublin 2, ireland and our administrative offices are located at 515 eastern avenue, allegan, michigan 49010. our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. our website address is www.perrigo.com , where we make available free of charge our reports on forms 10-kt, 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably 22 perrigo company plc - item 1 practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). these filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il . item 1a. risk factors risks related to operations if we do not continue to rapidly develop, manufacture, and market innovative products that meet customer demands, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. our continued growth is due in large part to our ability to rapidly develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer requirements for quality, safety, efficacy, and cost effectiveness. continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to our business. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market new products, we could lose market share, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. see item 1. business - research and development for more information. we maintain a diversified product line to function as a primary supplier for our customers. capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. our estimates of future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. in addition, if we fail to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, we may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions. our product margins may decline over time due to our products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice, changes in competition for our existing products, or the introduction of next generation innovative products; therefore, new product introductions are necessary to maintain our current financial condition. if we are unable to continue to create new products, we may lose market share or experience pricing pressure, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. we must prove that the anda regulated drug products in our chc and rx segments are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which requires bioequivalence studies, and in the case of topical products, even more extensive clinical endpoint trials to demonstrate the efficacy. the development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly, and subject to a high degree of business risk. products currently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies, or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges. necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, and we may not be able to successfully and profitably produce and market such products. this could negatively impact our net sales. our ability to attract and retain scientists proficient in emerging delivery forms and/or contracting with a third party in order to generate new products of this type is critical to our long-term plans. if we fail to attract and retain this talent, our long-term sales growth and profit could be adversely impacted. even upon the successful development of a product, our customer's failure to launch a product successfully, or delays in manufacturing, could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the fda or similar regulatory agency could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain regulatory clearance to launch new formulations into the market, which could negatively impact our future net sales. we contract with clinical research organizations ("cros") to conduct various studies that are used to support our new product development program. during the third quarter of our fiscal year ended june 29, 2013, certain of these cros began bankruptcy or receivership proceedings, including pracs institute, llc, pracs institute canada b.c. ltd., comprehensive clinical development, inc., and their related entities. it is uncertain what impact these insolvency proceedings may have on their ability to deliver their study results to us or on our ability to rely on their research. to the extent these cros cannot deliver their study results to us or we cannot rely, in whole or in part, on the research conducted by them, we may be required to delay the launch of new products, which could have a material adverse impact on our future 23 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors operating results. the fda may be limited in its ability to inspect cros' study facilities or to gain access to source study documents, which may result in us having to repeat biostudies. if these scenarios occur, it could result in approval delays for new products, which could adversely impact our future net sales. these situations are unique, and we are unable to predict the fda's position on the studies conducted by these now bankrupt cros. our chc and bch segments are impacted by changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to adapt to these changes, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. while the market for store brand products has grown in recent years, there can be no assurance that the pace of this growth will continue. additionally, consumer preferences related to health and nutritional concerns may change, which could negatively impact demand for our chc and bch products or cause us to incur additional costs to change our products or product packaging. the future growth and stability of u.s. store brand market share will be impacted, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products. our chc segment sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and consumers return to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products. conversely, while store brand products present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, if economic conditions deteriorate, our chc segment sales could be negatively impacted if consumers forgo obtaining healthcare or reduce their healthcare spending. our bch segment's success is dependent on the continued growth in demand for its lifestyle products, which include weight-loss products and various dietary supplements. if demand for these products decreases, our bch segment's results of operations would be negatively impacted. our chc customers may request changes in packaging to meet consumer demands, which could cause us to incur inventory obsolescence charges and redesign costs, which in turn would negatively impact our chc segment's results of operations. our infant formula product category within our chc segment is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. our business depends, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. to the extent that private, public, and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products. we could also be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the u.s. federal government through the women, infants and children program, as we do not participate in this program. we face risks associated with the successful integration of our recently-acquired omega business. as described in item 1. business - major recent developments , we closed on the omega acquisition on march 30, 2015. in addition to the risks mentioned under " we may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results ", the omega acquisition exposes us to a number of business, financial, and competitive risks, including: the omega acquisition represents a major shift in our business, both geographically, as our business is now more heavily concentrated in european markets than before, and operationally, as the omega business sells well-known branded products using a large sales force. these changes may present challenges and risks related to, among other things, our attempt to create synergies with omega. there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate omega or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the omega acquisition. our success in the european markets in which omega operates will depend on a number of factors, such as: our ability to commercialize new products; our ability to adapt to changes in economic and political conditions; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; 24 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors compliance with differing regulatory and legal requirements, including tax laws, trade laws, labor, safety, local content, consumer protection regulation, and import or export licensing requirements; and consistency and transparency of foreign tax systems, transfer pricing stability across jurisdictions, and our ability to reinvest earnings and cash as appropriate. many of these factors are beyond our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased net sales, and diversion of management's time and energy, any or all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. while omega has not historically been subject to u.s. laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, it has been subject to a wide range of european laws and regulations, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010. the comparable u.s. laws and regulations to which omega is now subject may differ from those to which omega was historically subject. therefore, it is possible that certain omega sales or other activities that were permitted while omega was an independent company may no longer be permitted. while we are putting into place compliance processes and controls intended to ensure compliance with u.s. and global laws that now apply to omega, if omega's operations fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. we operate in a highly regulated industry, and any inability to timely meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. we are subject to the regulations of a variety of u.s. and non-u.s. agencies related to the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products as described in detail in item 1. business - government regulation and pricing . government regulation in the markets in which we operate could impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. below are some of the ways in which government regulation could impact our business and/or financial results: we must obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies in order to manufacture and sell our products in the regions in which we operate. obtaining this approval can be time consuming and costly. there can be no assurance that, in the event we submit an application for a marketing authorization to any global regulatory agency, we will obtain the approval to market a prescription or otc product and/or that we will obtain it on a timely basis. laws unique to the u.s. regulatory framework encourage generic competition by providing eligibility for first generic marketing exclusivity if certain conditions are met. if we are granted generic exclusivity, the exclusivity may be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics; or it is possible that we may forfeit 180-day exclusivity if we do not obtain regulatory approval or begin marketing the product within the statutory requirements. finally, if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of our product. global regulatory agencies regularly inspect our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our third-party suppliers. the failure of one of our facilities, or a facility of one of our third-party suppliers, to comply with applicable laws and regulations may lead to a breach of representations made to our customers, or to regulatory or government action against us related to the products made in that facility. such action could include suspension of or delay in regulatory approvals. if the compliance violations are severe, agencies of the government may initiate product seizure, injunction, recall, suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, or civil or criminal prosecution, thereby impacting the reputation of all of our products. in the u.s., the dscsa requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period beginning on january 1, 2015, for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. similarly, the european commission passed legislation requiring new product packaging safety features' to prevent falsification of medicinal products primarily within the 25 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors prescription medicines sector. the act was adopted in october 2015 but has yet to be officially published. marketing authorization holders will have 3 years from the publication date to implement the necessary changes or risk forfeiting their product licenses. compliance with the new u.s. and eu electronic pedigree requirements may increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. global regulatory agencies highly scrutinize any product application submitted to switch a product from physician prescribed rx to unsupervised otc use by the general public.the expansion of rx-to-otc switches is critical to our future growth. reluctance of regulatory agencies to approve rx-to-otc switches in new product categories could impact that growth. several bills have been introduced in u.s. congress that could, if enacted, affect the manufacture and marketing of rx and otc drugs including labeling and packaging. for example, the fda is proposing to change existing regulations to permit generic drug application holders to revise their labeling without prior fda review to add new safety information that may differ from the corresponding brand drug. the fda announced that the final rule is targeted for publication by june 2016. if this proposed regulatory change is adopted, it may eliminate the preemption of certain failure-to-warn claims, with respect to generic drugs, which could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results. regulatory bodies outside of the u.s. could enact similar legislation. we cannot predict whether further label restrictions may be required, or whether additional regulations in the u.s. or other countries in which we operate, may be passed. the regulatory agencies in the markets we serve may change the requirements for comparison or claim statements for our otc products. any labeling changes required for regulatory compliance could render our packaging inventories obsolete and could negatively impact future sales of the product. our infant formula products may be subject to barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and dictating the specific content of infant formula products. governments could enhance regulations on the industry aimed at ensuring the safety and quality of dairy products, including, but not limited to, compulsory batch-by-batch inspection and testing for additional safety and quality issues. such inspections and testing may increase our operating costs related to infant formula products. on june 10, 2014, the fda published a final rule ("fr") entitled "current good manufacturing practices, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and records and reports, for infant formula." the fr includes, among other things, new or modified requirements related to infant formula manufacturing, quality controls, record-keeping, and clinical trials. while it is uncertain how the fda will interpret and enforce the fr, we are taking steps to comply with the provisions of the fr. compliance with the fr could be costly. to the extent the fda believes that we have not complied with the fr, we could experience potential supply chain disruptions and delays in commercialization of new infant formula products. we have expanded our pharmaceutical marketing to include direct interactions with healthcare professionals, which is known as detailing. this activity is subject to extensive regulation under a variety of u.s. laws and regulations, including anti-kickback, anti-bribery, and false claims laws; the ffdca with respect to claims and off-label promotions; and similar laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. if our marketing activities are found to be improper, we could be subject to civil and governmental actions and penalties. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations. if we are unable to successfully obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances and list i chemicals, we risk having delayed product launches or failures to meet commercial supply obligations. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements for controlled substances and list i chemicals, the dea, or similar regulatory agency, may take regulatory actions, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution of our products, withdrawal of our products from the market, or other penalties. the mexican ministry of health passed new laws requiring all marketing authorization holders to submit updated chemistry, manufacturing and controls information, and in some cases new mandatory bioequivalence studies, in the next license renewal. failure to submit the required data would result in the 26 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors cancellation of the product license and loss of product marketing rights. similar actions could be taken by other global regulatory agencies, which, if we failed to comply, could lead to commercial disruptions or possibly loss of marketing rights. the israeli ministry of health has issued the first draft of a new statement of position ("sop") that requires a risk management plan ("rmp") to be submitted in all new product marketing authorizations. the sop is based on european legislation and submission of the eu-approved rmp is preferred. compliance with the new requirement will become effective beginning may 1, 2016. we are currently evaluating the new requirement and cannot predict how it will impact our future product launches and results of operations. changes to the medical device directive are anticipated in 2016, based on a proposal for new european medical device regulation, which has been under discussion since 2012. these changes are expected to include increased supervision by the notified bodies by competent authorities and revisions to documentation requirements. we will monitor the regulation's progress and cannot currently predict how it will impact the future production and sale of products classified as medical devices. our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, such as restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies. we must also comply with a variety of u.s. laws related to doing business outside of the u.s., including office of foreign asset controls, united nations and eu sanctions; the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. further changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare, may affect our business and operations. healthcare reform and related changes to reimbursement methods in and outside of the united states may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. increasing healthcare expenditures have received considerable public attention in many of the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., government programs such as medicare and medicaid, as well as private insurers, have been focused on cost containment. in the eu and some other markets outside the u.s., the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. our rx segment in particular could be materially adversely impacted by measures taken by governmental entities or private insurers to restrict patients' access to our products or increase pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases, and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. these actions may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices or may reduce the ability of customers to pay for our products, which could materially negatively impact the rx segment's results of operations. if we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. as described in item 1. business - medicaid drug rebate programs , we have a medicaid rebate agreement and va master agreement in effect with the u.s. government. there are inherent risks associated with participating in the medicaid drug rebate program, and va fss program, including the following: we are required to report pricing data to cms, including amp, on a monthly and quarterly basis and bp and asp on a quarterly basis. we also are required to report quarterly and annual non-famps to the va. if we fail to submit required information, make misrepresentations, or knowingly submit false information to the government as to amp, asp, or bp, we may be liable for substantial civil monetary penalties or subject to other enforcement actions, such as under the false claims act, and cms may terminate our medicaid drug 27 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors rebate agreement. in that event, u.s. federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs. the health reform law enacted in 2010 requires the use of amp data to calculate fuls and amends the statutory definitions of amp and "multiple source drug" in a manner that materially affects the calculation of fuls. cms surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. on february 1, 2016, cms issued a final regulation to implement the changes to the medicaid drug rebate program under the health reform law. this regulation becomes effective on april 1, 2016. we are currently evaluating the impact of this regulation on our business and operations. based on our initial evaluation we do not believe that the changes will have a material impact on our business. we do not know how the methodologies for calculating amp and fuls or the retail survey acquisition cost information will affect our pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers will seek to pass on any decrease in medicaid reimbursements to us. we also cannot predict how the sharing of ful data and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace. statutory or regulatory changes or cms binding guidance could affect the calculation of amp, bp, or asp for our products. such changes could result in increases in our medicaid rebate liability or reductions in the medicare payment rate, and could negatively impact our results of operations. if we inadvertently overcharge the government in connection with our fss contract or section 703 agreement, whether due to a misstated fcp or otherwise, we would be required to refund the difference. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in false claims act allegations or potential violations of other laws and regulations. unexpected refunds to the government, and responses to a government investigation or enforcement action, are expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. our calculations and methodologies are subject to review by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that these reviews could result in challenges to our submissions. if we do not comply with those reporting and payment obligations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare programs (including medicaid and medicare). we face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical companies that may threaten the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our products compete against store brand, generic, and branded pharmaceutical companies. competition is also impacted by changes in regulations and government pricing programs that may give competitors an advantage. as a manufacturer of generic versions of brand-name drugs through our chc and rx segments, we experience competition from brand-name drug companies that may try to prevent, discourage or delay the use of generic versions through various measures, including introduction of new branded products, legislative initiatives, changing dosage forms or dosing regimens, regulatory processes, filing new patents or patent extensions, lawsuits, citizens' petitions, and negative publicity prior to introduction of a generic product. in addition, brand-name competitors may lower their prices to compete with generic products, increase advertising, or launch, either through an affiliate or licensing arrangements with another company, an authorized generic at or near the time the first generic product is launched, depriving the generic product market of the exclusivity intended by the hatch-waxman act. our chc and rx segments also experience competition from our generic competitors, some of whom are significantly larger than we are, may develop their products more rapidly or complete regulatory approval processes sooner, or may market their products earlier than we do. if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, which would prevent us from selling the 28 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors product during the exclusivity period. even if we are the first to file, in certain circumstances, we may not be able to fully exploit our 180-day exclusivity period. our chc and rx segments may experience increased price competition as other generic companies produce the same product, sometimes for dramatically lower margins in order to gain market share. other generic companies may introduce new drugs and/or drug delivery techniques that make our current products less desirable. a drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity, and thereafter we may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars. the pharmaceutical industry is consolidating. this creates larger competitors and places further pressure on prices, development activities, and customer retention. our animal health category within the chc segment has seen a dramatic increase in direct to consumer advertising by several branded competitors, and our nutritionals category has experienced increased competition through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail, and direct sales. we develop and distribute branded products primarily through our bch segment. we experience competition from other brand-name drug companies, many of which are larger and have more resources to devote to advertising and marketing. these direct competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. our current and future competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those offered by us at more competitive prices. if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed through loss of customers or increased negative pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our operating results. lack of availability, or significant increases in the cost, of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results. affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. in addition, maintaining good supply relationships is essential to our ongoing operations. see item 1. business - materials sourcing for more information. we maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher-volume or more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of net sales. additionally, global regulatory requirements for obtaining product approvals could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. as a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers could have a negative material impact on our financial results. our infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder, and lactose. our supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality we deem necessary. raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond our control including seasonal and environmental factors, governmental agricultural and environmental policy, and global demand. we cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients necessary to produce infant formula. our products, and the raw materials used to make those products, generally have limited shelf lives. our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. we may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write- 29 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors downs and write-offs. cargo thefts and/or diversions, and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may occur, causing unexpected shortages, which may have a material impact on our operations. we rely on third parties to source many of our raw materials, as well as to manufacture sterile, injectable products that we distribute. we maintain a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants, and toxic substances. nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes, or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of the contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. any future recall or removal would result in additional costs and lost revenue, harm our reputation, and may give rise to product liability litigation. changes in regulation could impact the supply of api and certain other raw materials used in our products. for example, the eu recently promulgated new standards requiring all api imported into the eu be certified as complying with gmp established by the eu. the regulations placed the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries, which led to an api supply shortage in europe as certain governments were not willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api or other raw ingredients could cause us to have to cease manufacture of certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers are unable to export. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow. a disruption at any of our main manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a few locations. see item 1. business - manufacturing and distribution for more information on our significant operations. a significant disruption at one or more of these facilities, whether it be due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, intentional acts of vandalism, war, terrorism, insufficient quality, or pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business. additionally, regulatory authorities routinely inspect all of our manufacturing facilities for cgmp compliance. while our manufacturing sites are cgmp compliant, if a regulatory authority were to identify serious adverse findings not corrected upon follow up inspections, we may be required to issue product recalls, shutdown manufacturing facilities, and take other remedial actions. if any manufacturing facility were forced to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. any breach or disruption of our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. our systems, information, and operations, as well as our independent vendor relationships (where they support information technology and manufacturing infrastructure), are highly complex and vulnerable to disruption or damage from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, sabotage, industrial espionage, and computer viruses. such events may be difficult to detect; and, once detected, their impact may be difficult to assess. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. these risks include: breaches or disruptions could impair our ability to develop, meet regulatory approval efforts for, produce, and/or ship products, take and fulfill orders, and/or collect and make payments on a timely basis; any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower sales volume, and incur significant liabilities; and we could incur significant expense in addressing a disruption and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. 30 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors because our business depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of our sales, our business would be adversely affected by a disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' businesses. sales to our largest customer, walmart, comprised approximately 13% of our total net sales for the six months ended december 31, 2015 . while no other customer individually comprised more than 10% of total net sales, we do have other significant customers. if our relationship with one or more of these other customers, including the terms of doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on us. see item 1. business - significant customers for more information. many of our customers, which include chain drug stores, wholesalers, distributors, hospital systems, and group purchasing organizations, continue to merge or consolidate. such consolidation has provided, and may continue to provide, customers with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures we face. the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. in addition, a number of our customers have instituted sourcing programs limiting the number of suppliers of generic pharmaceutical products carried by that customer. these developments have resulted in heightened pricing pressure on our products, as well as competition among generic drug producers for business from a smaller and more selective customer base. additionally, if we are unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, and/or end their relationships with us. our specialty sciences segment generates revenue primarily from royalties on tysabri , and any negative developments related to tysabri could have a material adverse effect on our business. we occasionally enter into arrangements that entitle us to potential royalties from third parties. our most significant royalty is the tysabri royalty received quarterly from biogen, which generated $167.3 million of pretax income during the six months ended december 31, 2015 . see item 1. business - specialty sciences for more information on our tysabri royalty arrangement. our pretax income could be adversely affected if the royalty streams decline in future periods. factors that may have an adverse effect on our tysabri royalty stream include: foreign currency movement, which could have a negative impact on biogen's tysabri sales, thereby reducing our royalties; companies working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis that, if successfully developed, would compete with, or could gain greater acceptance than, tysabri and damage our market share; any negative developments relating to tysabri , such as safety, efficacy, or reimbursement issues, could reduce demand for tysabri ; and adverse regulatory or legislative developments could limit or prohibit the sale of tysabri , such as restrictions on the use of tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, which may significantly reduce expected net sales and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. additionally, tysabri sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings on the label, including the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ("pml"), a serious brain infection. the risk of developing pml may increase with prior immunosuppressant use, longer treatment duration, or the presence of certain antibodies. increased incidence of pml could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label, or result in market withdrawal. in addition, the result of ongoing or future clinical trials involving tysabri or other adverse events reported in association with the use of tysabri may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of tysabri . 31 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we are dependent on the services of certain key executive and scientific employees. the failure to attract and retain such employees may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. in particular, key employees of acquired companies may perceive uncertainty about their future role until strategies regarding the combined business are fully executed. key functions for us include executive managers, operational managers, r&amp;d scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists, and sales/marketing personnel. if we are unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, our future operating results may be adversely impacted. unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products, and may be affected by changing consumer preferences. negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations, or recalls, regardless of whether they involve us or our products. the mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients, or concerns about our products or the materials used in our products, could discourage consumers from buying our products, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported. our products involve risks such as product contamination, spoilage, mislabeling, and tampering that could require us to recall one or more of our products. serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against us that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses, delays in the issuance of governmental approvals for new products, or other governmental penalties, all of which could be detrimental to our reputation and reduce demand for our products. we cannot guarantee that counterfeiting, imitation or other tampering with our products will not occur or that we will be able to detect and resolve it. any counterfeiting or contamination of any products could negatively impact our reputation and sales, particularly if counterfeit or imitation products cause death or injury to consumers. many of the brands we acquired from omega have european recognition. this recognition is the result of the large investments omega has made in its products over many years. the quality and safety of the products are critical to our business. if we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about safety, quality, efficacy, or similar matters, sentiments toward us and our products could be negatively impacted. our bch segment's financial success is dependent on the success of its brands, and the success of these brands can suffer if marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers and the performance of the segment may be negatively impacted if spending on such plans and initiatives does not generate the returns we anticipate. in addition, given the association of individual products within the commercial network of our bch segment, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of other products, thereby potentially hurting our financial results. powdered infant formula products are not sterile. all of our infant formula products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. depending on the product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw materials, the processing and packaging of food products, and the use and handling by consumers, hospital personnel, and healthcare professionals. in the event that certain of our infant formula products are found or alleged to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not under our control, our reputation and our infant formula product category sales could be materially adversely affected. 32 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors scientific studies and media reports can have a negative impact on the demand for certain of our products, regardless of whether they directly involve us. for instance, there have been recent reports and investigations questioning the efficacy of regular consumption of certain vitamins and supplements and challenging the dietary supplement industry. our vms sales have been negatively impacted by the media attention. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputation damage. the company and our employees increasingly utilize social media as a means of internal and external communication. to the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. a violation of such guidelines may damage our reputation as well as cause potential lawsuits and adversely affect our operating activities. our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. negative posts or comments about us, store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation and could adversely affect the price of our securities. in addition, negative posts or comments about our products could result in increased pharmacovigilance reporting requirements, which may give rise to liability if we fail to fully comply with such requirements. our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of our management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. some of these factors include the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu and allergy season, and flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by us and our competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in accounting pronouncements, the magnitude and timing of r&amp;d investments, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by our customers, and the timing of retailer promotional programs. we may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. one of our strategies is inorganic growth through the acquisition of products and companies that we expect will benefit the company. this strategy comes with a number of financial, managerial, and operational risks. we may not realize the benefits of an acquisition because of integration and other challenges, including, but not limited to the following: the difficulty involved with managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company; uncertainties involved in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities of the respective parties; unanticipated changes in the business, industry, market or general economic conditions different from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction; potential inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies, or return on investment, from an acquisition in the amounts or on the time frame anticipated; 33 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors substantial demands on our management, operational resources, technology, and financial and internal control systems, which could lead to dissatisfaction and potential loss of key customers, management, or employees; integration activities may detract attention from our day-to-day business, and there might be substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts; and we may undertake financing to complete an acquisition that impacts our liquidity, credit ratings and financial position, thereby making it more difficult, restrictive or expensive to raise future capital. actual results may differ from pro forma financial information of the combined companies due to changes in the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, changes in assumptions used to form estimates, differences in accounting policies between the companies, and completion of purchase accounting. in addition, we may enter into new product or geographical markets which are unknown to us and which may be difficult to properly manage. on march 30, 2015, we completed the acquisition of omega, which now comprises our bch segment. subsequent to acquiring omega, we acquired several products (gsk products and yokebe ), which were added to the bch segment. the bch segment operates in 36 countries and accordingly may experience changes in performance based on specific strategies, market dynamics, product marketing plans, or other factors related to each respective market. further, each country has processes in place to manage advertising and promotion, inventory fulfillment, and commercial agreements with customers in those markets relating to pricing, product returns, credit terms, and other commercial requirements. accordingly, performance in each respective market is subject to these agreements and practices. the net sales and operating income of our bch segment were lower than our expectations during the three months ended december 31, 2015. excluding the impact of acquisitions, net sales were lower than omega's prior year primarily in three main markets: belgium, spain, and germany. belgium includes the segment's generic distributions business, which experienced lower sales during the six months ended december 31, 2015. excluding the impact of recently completed acquisitions, net sales in spain and germany were considerably below omega's prior year net sales and our expectations during the three months ended december 31, 2015 due to lower sales of lifestyle and vms products. further, the bch segment's operating income was lower than our expectations due primarily to the change in sales in these markets, issues with sales and inventory forecasting and management procedures, costs associated with excess inventory, product returns, and advertising and promotion initiatives incurred during the three months ended december 31, 2015. we are in the process of implementing sales forecasting, inventory planning and control procedures, and financial planning and analysis systems in the segment consistent with perrigo practices. there can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience challenges related to the bch segment and these challenges could have a material impact on our business, cash flows, and results of operations. we have acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject us to losses and may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we have recorded significant intangible assets and goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of previous acquisitions, which could become impaired and lead to material charges in the future. we regularly review our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment. goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are subject to impairment review on an annual basis and whenever impairment indicators are present. for the six months ended december 31, 2015 , we recorded an impairment of certain indefinite-lived intangible assets based on management's expectations of the prospects for future revenues, profits, and cash flows associated with these assets. the indefinite-lived intangible assets were purchased in conjunction with the omega acquisition and are included in the bch segment. the assessment utilized the excess earnings method to determine fair value and resulted in an impairment charge of $185.1 million . this impairment represented the 34 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors difference between the carrying amount of the intangible assets and their estimated fair value. see item 8. note 3 for further information. no goodwill impairment charges were recorded for the six months ended december 31, 2015 , however our testing indicated that our specialty sciences reporting unit's fair value exceeded its carrying value by less than 10%. management evaluated the primary source of cash flow in this segment, the tysabri royalty stream, based on a combination of factors including independent external research, information provided from our royalty partner, and internal estimates. based on this information, management's expectations for future cash flow from this royalty stream have been reduced primarily due to anticipated new competitors entering the market and unfavorable changes in the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies. actual performance different from the assumptions utilized in our quantitative analysis may further reduce the fair value of the reporting unit, which may result in the fair value no longer exceeding the carrying value, which would require us to record an impairment charge. we perform an impairment analysis on intangible assets subject to amortization when there is an indication that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicates a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. there can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives will achieve their intended effects. we are in the process of implementing certain initiatives designed to increase operational efficiency and improve our return on invested capital by globalizing our supply chain through global shared service arrangements, streamlining our organizational structure, and disposing of certain assets. we believe these initiatives will enhance our revenue, operating margins, and earnings; however, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will produce the anticipated benefits. any delay or failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our projected results. global risks our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. we manufacture, source raw materials, and sell our products in a number of countries. the percentage of our business outside the u.s. has been increasing. we are subject to risks associated with international manufacturing and sales, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; problems related to markets with different cultural biases or political systems; possible difficulties in enforcing agreements; longer payment cycles and shipping lead-times; difficulties obtaining export or import licenses or changes in import/export regulations; and imposition of withholding or other taxes. additionally, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering import/export regulations. to the extent that we are unable to successfully defend against an audit or review, we may be required to pay assessments, penalties, and increased duties. certain of our facilities operate in a special purpose sub-zone established by the u.s. department of commerce foreign trade zone board, which allows us certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. if the foreign trade zone board were to revoke the sub-zone designation or limit our use, we could be subject to increased duties. although we believe that we conduct our business in compliance with applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and economic sanctions or other anti-corruption laws, if we are found to not be in compliance with such laws or other anti-corruption laws, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. this risk increases in locations outside of the u.s., particularly in locations that have not previously had to comply with the fcpa, u.k. bribery act, and similar laws. 35 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors current and changing global economic conditions may adversely affect our business. a number of non-u.s. jurisdictions in which we do business have been negatively impacted by slowing growth rates or recessionary conditions and market volatility. several emerging market economies are particularly vulnerable to the impact of rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, weaker oil and other commodity prices, and large external deficits. while some of these jurisdictions are showing signs of stabilization or recovery, others, such as ukraine, russia and greece, continue to experience increasing levels of stress and volatility. risks in one country can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in another country or countries. as a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our operations. while the challenging global economic environment has not had a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources, impact our ability to obtain financing in the future, or decrease the value of our assets. our customers could be adversely impacted if economic conditions worsen. our chc segment does not advertise its products like national brand companies and thus is largely dependent on retailer promotional activities to drive sales volume and increase market share. if our customers do not have the ability to invest in store brand promotional activities, our sales may suffer. additionally, while we actively review the credit worthiness of our customers and suppliers, we cannot fully predict to what extent they may be negatively impacted by slowing economic growth. the international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates. we report our financial results in u.s. dollars. however, a significant portion of our net sales, assets, indebtedness and other liabilities, and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. these currencies include among others the euro, indian rupee, british pound, canadian dollar, israeli shekel, australian dollar, and mexican peso. the addition of omega, a euro-denominated business, that represents a significant portion of our net sales and earnings, and a substantial portion of our net assets, has significantly increased our exposure to changes in the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate. in addition, approximately 25% of omega's sales are in other foreign currencies, with the majority of the product costs for these markets denominated in euros. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been, and may in the future, be adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. in addition, we may also be exposed to credit risks in some of those markets. we may implement currency hedges or take other actions intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are not successful in mitigating the effects of changes in exchange rates on our business, any such changes could materially impact our results. we operate in jurisdictions that could be affected by economic and political instability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations outside the u.s. could be affected by economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities, unstable governments and legal systems, and inter-governmental disputes. we have significant operations in israel, which has experienced varying degrees of hostility in recent years. doing business in israel and certain other regions including mexico and eastern europe involves the following risks: certain countries and international organizations have refused to do business with companies with israeli operations. we are also precluded from marketing our products to certain countries due to u.s. and israeli regulatory restrictions. international economic sanctions and boycotts of our products could negatively impact our sales and ability to export our products. 36 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our facilities in israel are within a conflict zone. if terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to our facilities, our business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, we would need to obtain prior regulatory agency approval for a change in manufacturing site. in addition, our insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. the u.s. department of state and other governments have at times issued advisories regarding travel to certain countries in which we do business. as a result, regulatory agencies have at various times curtailed or prohibited their inspectors from traveling to inspect facilities. if these inspectors are unable to inspect our facilities, the regulatory agencies could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities. our international operations may be subject to interruption due to travel restrictions, war, terrorist acts, and other armed conflicts. for example, belgium and eastern europe may be exposed to further acts of terrorism, which could give rise to travel and increased security restrictions. also, further threats of armed hostilities in mexico could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the cancellation of contracts or the loss of assets. these events could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations. risks related to litigation and insurance we are or may become involved in lawsuits and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings. we may become involved in lawsuits arising from various commercial matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising/unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product quality/recall issues, environmental remediation issues, and regulatory issues. litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. no assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the future. see item 8. note 16 for more information. we may be subject to liability if our products violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where our products are distributed. the successful assertion of product liability or other product-related claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, and we could incur substantial legal expenses. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation may suffer. we are a defendant in product liability lawsuits arising out of serious adverse events, including deaths, which occurred in patients taking tysabri . we expect additional product liability lawsuits related to tysabri usage to be filed. tysabri 's distributor, biogen, and perrigo will each be responsible for 50% of losses and expenses arising out of any tysabri product liability claims. along with biogen, we intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits, however, we cannot predict how these cases will be resolved. adverse results in one or more of these cases could result in substantial monetary judgments not covered by insurance. we may face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. while we do not have any material remediation liabilities currently outstanding, we may in the future face liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under or in our currently or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility that we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. the actual or alleged presence of these substances, or the failure to remediate them, could have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on our ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. there can be no assurance that environmental liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on us. see item 1. business - information applicable to all reportable segments - environmental for more information. 37 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our bch segment regularly makes advertising claims regarding the effectiveness of its products, which we are responsible for defending. an unsuccessful defense of product-related claims could result in potentially significant monetary damages and substantial legal expenses. even if a claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation could suffer. third-party patents and other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to bring new products to market and may subject us to potential legal liability, causing us to incur significant costs. the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. as a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products, the ability of our chc and rx segments to bring new products to market is often limited by third-party patents or proprietary rights and regulatory exclusivity periods awarded on products. launching new products prior to resolution of intellectual property issues may result in us incurring legal liability if the related litigation is later resolved against us. the cost and time for us to develop prescription and rx-to-otc switch products is significantly greater than the rest of the new products that we introduce. any failure to bring new products to market in a timely manner could cause us to lose market share, and our operating results could suffer. we could have to defend against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. this could require us to incur substantial expense and could divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel. if we are found to have infringed on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or manufacture some products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. additionally, if we choose to settle a dispute through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products. at times, our chc or rx segments may seek approval to market nda or anda products before the expiration of patents for those products, based upon our belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by our products. in these cases we may face significant patent litigation. depending upon a complex analysis of a variety of legal and commercial factors, we may, in certain circumstances, elect to market a generic pharmaceutical product while litigation is pending, before any court decision, or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending, known as an "at risk" launch. the risk involved in an "at risk" launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to the patent holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic version of the product. by electing to proceed in this manner, we could face substantial damages if we receive an adverse final court decision. in the case where a patent holder is able to prove that our infringement was "willful" or "exceptional," under applicable law, the patent holder may be awarded up to three times the amount of its actual damages or we may be required to pay attorneys' fees. the success of certain of our products depends on the effectiveness of measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights and patents. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. we have been issued patents covering certain of our products, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the u.s. any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by us may not provide us with any significant competitive advantages for our products or may even be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using, or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. 38 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees, and consultants. if these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of the insurance we maintain could adversely impact our financial condition. to protect the company against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs, including property, general and product, and directors' and officers' liability. we may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. we are self-insured when insurance is not available or not available at reasonable premiums. risks associated with insurance plans include: insurance costs could increase significantly, or the availability of insurance may decrease, either of which could adversely impact our financial condition; deductible or retention amounts could increase or our coverage could be reduced in the future and to the extent losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we maintained; product liability insurance may not be available to us at an economically reasonable cost (or at all for certain specific products) or our insurance may not adequately cover our liability in connection with product liability claims (see item 8. note 16 for further information related to legal proceedings); and as our business inherently exposes us to claims for injuries allegedly resulting from the use of our products, we may become subject to claims for which we are not adequately insured. unanticipated payment of a large claim may have a material adverse effect on our business. tax related risks the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs") may not agree with the conclusion that we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. although we are incorporated in ireland, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("code"). for u.s. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. for perrigo company plc to be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the code, either (i) the former stockholders of perrigo company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our stock by reason of holding shares in perrigo company (the "ownership test") as of the closing of the elan acquisition or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in ireland after the elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). upon our acquisition of elan, perrigo company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of our shares. as a result, we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, we cannot assure that the irs will agree with our position that the ownership test is satisfied. there is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test. based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that section 7874 of the code likely will limit our and our u.s. affiliates' ability to use their u.s. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset certain u.s. 39 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors taxable income, if any, generated by the elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the elan acquisition. changes to tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, any of the following could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes: changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the code, the irs treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other irs guidance; and legislative proposals aimed at expanding the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence. for example, the department of the treasury and the irs provided notice in september 2014 and november 2015 that the agencies intend to issue regulations to reduce the tax benefits of or preclude entirely certain inversion transactions. in the november 2015 notice, the secretary of the treasury communicated the intention to explore potential guidance on earnings stripping and take further action in the coming months. the office of the revenue commissioners, u.s. congress, the organization for economic co-operation and development ("oecd"), and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. one example is in the area of "base erosion and profit shifting" ("beps"), where taxpayers arbitrage between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates or structure their transfer pricing arrangements to minimize tax. the oecd published fifteen action item reports and recommendations last fall, and the eu has made current proposals to enact the recommendations. although u.s. tax officials generally state that beps will not require changes in u.s. law, it could affect u.s. tax regulations, and the regulations of other countries in which we and our affiliates do business. any of these changes could have a prospective or retroactive application to us, our shareholders, and affiliates, and could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. our effective tax rate may change in the future, which could adversely impact our future results from operations. a number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, which may impact our future results from operations. these factors include, but are not limited to: income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to our interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (such as proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform); changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and repatriation of non-u.s. earnings with respect to which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. 40 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors the resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. in addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments. the irs audit of our fiscal years ended june 27, 2009 and june 26, 2010 had previously concluded with the issuance of a statutory notice of deficiency on august 27, 2014. while we had previously agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $8.0 million inclusive of interest in november 2014, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional positions, including transfer pricing, relative to the audit of fiscal years ended june 27, 2009 and june 26, 2010. the statutory notice asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $68.9 million, inclusive of interest and penalties. we disagree with the irs's positions asserted in the notice of deficiency. in january 2015, we paid this amount, a prerequisite to being able to contest the irs's positions in u.s. federal court, and in june 2015 we filed a request for a refund. the irs denied our request for a refund. in the next several months we are likely to file a complaint in federal district court claiming a refund for these amounts. an unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. the irs is auditing our fiscal years ended june 25, 2011 and june 30, 2012, and may make adjustments consistent with their claims for the fiscal years ended june 27, 2009 and june 26, 2010. subsequent to december 31, 2015, the belgium tax authority notified us that all belgium locations will be audited for the years ending december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2014. there are numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. risks related to capital and liquidity our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. we anticipate that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and borrowings available under our credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. our business requires continuous capital investments, and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. additionally, our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect the business. at december 31, 2015 , our total indebtedness outstanding was $6.0 billion . downgrades to our credit ratings may limit our access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs on current or future financing, including via trade payables with vendors. customers' inclination to purchase goods from us may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of our credit ratings. our senior credit facilities, the agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. we also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. if we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities, agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. 41 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors any default under our senior credit facilities or agreements governing our senior notes or other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. if our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay or refinance our debt or obtain sufficient new financing. there are various maturity dates associated with our credit facilities, senior notes, and other debt facilities. there is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. further, there is no assurance that future refinancing or renegotiation of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt facilities, or additional agreements will not have materially different or more stringent terms. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . we cannot guarantee that we will buy back our ordinary shares pursuant to our recently announced share repurchase plan or that our share repurchase plan will enhance long-term shareholder value. on october 22, 2015, our board of directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase plan. during the three months ended december 31, 2015 , we repurchased shares through the plan totaling $500.0 million . the remaining $1.5 billion in repurchases may extend through the year ended december 31, 2018. though we anticipate that we will complete the purchase of the remaining $1.5 billion in shares in accordance with the announced timeline, the specific timing and amount of buybacks, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our ordinary shares, and, with respect to the expected repurchases in 2016 and beyond, the nature of other investment opportunities. buybacks of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase plan could affect the market price of our ordinary shares or increase their volatility. additionally, our share repurchase plan could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. although our share repurchase plan is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so, and short-term share price fluctuations could reduce the plan's effectiveness. any additional shares we may issue could dilute your ownership in the company. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders, and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by the articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights by way of special resolution with respect to any particular allotment of shares. our articles of association contain, as permitted by irish company law, a provision authorizing the board to issue new shares for cash without offering preemption rights. the authorization of the directors to issue shares and the authorization of the waiver of the statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. we are incorporated in ireland; irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014 (the "act"). the act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification of directors. under irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. as a result, shareholders of irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. 42 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax, and capital acquisitions tax. there is no treaty between ireland and the u.s. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in ireland, the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and be for a final and conclusive sum. an irish court may exercise its right to refuse to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if it violated irish public policy, if it is in breach of natural justice, or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. an irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. judgments of u.s. courts of liabilities predicated upon u.s. federal securities laws may not be enforced by irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in ireland. we are subject to irish takeover rules under which our board of directors is not permitted to take any action without irish takeover panel approval that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once we have received an approach that may lead to an offer, or have reason to believe an offer is imminent. further, it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction than if we were a u.s. company because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under irish law. we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends in the future. a number of factors may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future, including: the availability of distributable reserves, as approved by our shareholders and the irish high court; our ability to receive cash dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries compliance with applicable laws and debt covenants; and our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risk we are a global company with operations throughout north america, europe, australia, mexico, and israel. we transact business in each location's local currency and in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposures to changes in exchange rates. our largest exposure is the movement of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro, which has increased due to the omega acquisition. in addition, our u.s. operations continue to expand their export business, primarily in canada, china, and europe, and are subject to fluctuations in the respective exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. a large portion of the sales of our israeli operations is in foreign currencies, primarily u.s. dollars and euros, while these operations largely incur costs in their local currency. further, a portion of biogen's global sales of tysabri are denominated in local currencies creating exposures to changes in exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar and thereby impacting the amount of u.s. dollar royalties we receive. due to different sales and cost structures, certain segments experience a negative impact and certain segments a positive impact as a result of changes in exchange rates. we estimate the translation effect of a ten percent devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to the other foreign currencies in which we transact business would have increased operating income of our non-u.s. operating units by approximately $18.6 million for the six months ended december 31, 2015 . this sensitivity analysis has inherent limitations. the analysis disregards the possibility that rates of multiple foreign currencies will not always move in the same direction relative to the value of the u.s. dollar over time and does not account for foreign exchange derivatives that we utilize to mitigate fluctuations in exchange rates. in addition, we enter into certain purchase commitments for materials that, although denominated in u.s. dollars, are linked to foreign currency valuations. these commitments generally contain a range for which the price of materials may fluctuate over time given the value of a foreign currency. the translation of the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated operations is made using local currency exchange rates as of the end of the year. translation adjustments are not included in determining net income but are disclosed in accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci") within shareholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheets until a sale or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the subsidiary takes place. in certain markets, we could recognize a significant gain or loss related to unrealized cumulative translation adjustments if we were to exit the market and liquidate our net investment. as of december 31, 2015 , cumulative net currency translation adjustments decreased shareholders' equity by $4.4 million . 80 perrigo company plc - item 7a we monitor and strive to manage risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. exposures that cannot be naturally offset within a local entity to an immaterial amount are often hedged with foreign exchange derivatives or netted with offsetting exposures at other entities. seerisk factors 26 risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition. consumer healthcare international overview the chci segment is comprised primarily of branded otc sales attributable to omega and also includes our consumer focused businesses in the u.k., australia, and israel, which were previously reported in the legacy consumer healthcare segment. the chci segment develops, manufactures, markets and distributes many well-known european otc brands in the natural health and vitamins, cough, cold and allergy, smoking cessation, personal care and derma-therapeutics, lifestyle, and anti-parasite categories. in addition, the segment leverages its broad regulatory, sales, and distribution infrastructure to in-license and sell third-party brands and generic pharmaceutical products. the chci segment distributes these products through an extensive network of customers including pharmacies, wholesalers, drug and grocery store retailers, and para pharmacies in 30 countries, primarily in europe. many chci products are top sellers in the markets in which they compete. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , the chci segment represented approximately 31% of consolidated net sales. through continued investment in r&amp;d partnerships and new technologies, the chci segment strives to offer high quality products that meet consumers' needs. the combination of internal r&amp;d, in-licensing, acquisitions, and partnerships support the product pipeline, both in terms of brand expansion and product improvement. in the u.k., r&amp;d focuses on oral liquid formulations for the branded rx products for which liquid formulations are not available and development of store brand products. in the rest of europe, most r&amp;d is performed by external partners with oversight by our teams. the segment has seven plants dedicated to manufacturing certain of its products, but over 80% of its production is outsourced to third parties. we are transitioning some of the segment's r&amp;d and manufacturing in-house as we continue to integrate omega into our operations. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , we brought the production of four major products in-house. we expect that by the end of 2017, approximately 36% of the products that we sell in europe would be manufactured at our own plants. the chci segment primarily focuses on building local and national brands. in many markets outside of the u.s., a brand marketing strategy can be more effective than a store brand strategy due to the absence of mass 9 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci merchandisers and large scale pharmacy chains. additionally, the absence of a centralized regulatory environment within europe adds to the complexity of obtaining approvals for products in these markets. while the chci segment sells products from over 350 brands both on its own and through third parties, it focuses its resources on its "top 20 brands", which are selected on the basis of their current sales and growth potential in the otc market. additional resources are allocated to these brands to build strong positions in the largest, most highly profitable categories in the otc market, while maintaining leadership in smaller branded categories. recent developments as part of our strategic initiatives, management continues to drive improvements and evaluate the overall cost structures within our chci segment in the following ways: on december 8, 2016, we announced the cancellation of the unprofitable eurogenerics nv distribution agreement in belgium. the cancellation, combined with the exit of certain otc distribution agreements, is expected to reduce net sales by approximately $200.0 million in 2017. we continue to make progress on our previously announced restructuring plans to right-size the omega business due to the impact of market dynamics on sales volumes. in addition, we made several strategic leadership changes during the year ended december 31, 2016, including appointing new leaders for belgium, france and germany as well as a new executive vice president of the chci segment. management continues to evaluate the overall cost structure relative to current and expected market dynamics. in 2016, we recognized $20.9 million of restructuring expense in the chci segment. management continues to evaluate the most effective business model for each country and has announced strategic evaluations for russia and argentina. the chci segment has been impacted by market dynamics in key countries such as belgium, france, germany and italy due to softness in certain brand categories and by unfavorable foreign currency impacts, primarily in the u.k. related to brexit. in addition, the segment had been impacted in belgium by a change in the forecast with a major wholesaler, as management implements improved supply chain efficiencies in this market. the chci segment has restructured its approach to addressing these markets including: (1) implementing a brand prioritization strategy to address these market dynamics, with an objective to balance the cost of advertising and promotional investments with expected contributions from category sales, (2) restructuring its sales force in each of these markets to more effectively serve customers, and (3) exiting certain unfavorable distribution agreements. the combination of these actions are expected to improve the segment's focus on higher value otc products, reduce selling costs and improve operating margins in the segment. 10 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci products below are the categories in which the chci segment competes and some of the top brands in each category. product category description top 20 brands cough, cold, and allergy products that address respiratory symptoms, including traditional medications and alternative treatments such as aromatherapy solutions. bittner /aflubin bronchodual physiomer phytosun /valda prevalin /beconase solpadeine /antigrippine lifestyle weight management, pregnancy and fertility kits, pain relief, sleep management, smoking cessation, and eye care. paravet /cl ment-th kan niquitin predictor silence /nytol xls (medical) natural health and vms vitamins, minerals, supplements, and various other natural remedies. biover /abtei davitamon / granufink /bional personal care and derma-therapeutics products for the face and body, including sun care, baby-specific, and feminine hygiene products, and solutions for various skin conditions and allergies such as eczema, psoriasis and rosacea. aco bodysol /galenco dermalex lactacyd wartner anti-parasite products focused on the elimination of parasites in both humans and pets including lice treatment and insect repellent. jungle formula paranix certain brands are considered "combination brands", as they are marketed under different names depending on the market in which they are sold. for these combination brands, we select the most appropriate products from each product line for the country where they will be marketed, then adopt the brand name that best matches local consumer preference. we launched a number of new chci products in the year ended december 31, 2016 , most notably products within the yokebe , granufink , and xls max strength brands. net sales related to new chci products totaled (in millions): year ended six months ended year ended december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2015 december 27, 2014 (1) june 27, 2015 june 28, 2014 (1) $ 119.0 $ 106.8 $ 66.8 $ 3.7 $ 43.8 $ 12.2 (1) excludes omega activity; acquisition took place on march 30, 2015. the chci segment has more than 72 strategic new products in seven product categories in development, with each of its top 20 brands having a five-year innovation master plan. 11 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci sales and marketing our customers include pharmacies, drug, and grocery stores located primarily in europe, including boots, asda, tesco, dm, rossmann, etos, kruidvat, woolworths (australia), and coles (australia). the chci segment sells its products primarily through an established pharmacy sales force and an extensive network of pharmacists. our sales representatives visit pharmacists daily, ensuring strong in-store visibility of our brands and facilitating pharmacist education programs. our sales, marketing, and regulatory teams use training/merchandising teams to work in conjunction with local sales representatives to improve our brands' presence and recognition. we seek to attract key talent from leading otc, fast moving consumer goods ("fmcg"), and retailer companies to build strong local teams throughout the countries in which the chci segment operates. while chci products have a higher average gross margin than products sold by the chca segment, selling expenses are significantly higher due to the sales force mentioned above, as well as targeted advertising and promotional spending to enhance brand equity. key marketing communication tools for the chci segment include tv commercials, consumer leaflets, product websites, digital and targeted promotional campaigns. competition the competitive landscape of the european otc market is highly fragmented, as local companies often hold leadership positions in individual product segments in particular countries. as a result, the relevant competition in each of the chci segment's markets is both local and global. competitors include reckitt benckiser, boehringer ingelheim, gsk, novartis, and johnson &amp; johnson as well as additional regional competitors. we believe our key advantage lies in our unique combination of best practices in sales, marketing, and product development from fmcg and otc/rx, while embracing the pharmacy channel to drive self-care. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition. prescription pharmaceuticals overview the rx segment develops, manufactures, and markets a portfolio of generic and specialty pharmaceutical prescription drugs primarily in the u.s. we define this portfolio as predominantly "extended" topical and "specialty" as it encompasses a broad array of topical dosage forms such as creams, ointments, lotions, gels, shampoos, foams, suppositories, sprays, liquids, suspensions, solutions, and powders. the portfolio also includes select controlled substances, injectables, hormones, oral solid dosage forms, and oral liquid formulations. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , the rx segment represented approximately 20% of consolidated net sales. our current development areas include other delivery systems such as oral liquids, metered dose inhalers, injectables, and transdermal products, some of which we are developing with third parties. our other areas of expertise include our production capabilities for controlled substances and hormonal products. r&amp;d efforts focus on complex formulations, many of which require costly clinical endpoint trials. we manufacture our topical, specialty, and oral products in the u.s. and israel, and also source from various fda-approved third parties. rx products are manufactured, labeled, and packaged in facilities that comply with strict regulatory standards and meet customers' stringent requirements. in addition, the rx segment offers otc products through the prescription channel (referred to as "orx ", these products are marketed using the perrigo name). orx products are otc products that are available for pharmacy fulfillment and healthcare reimbursement when prescribed by a physician. we offer numerous orx products that are reimbursable through many health plans and the u.s. medicaid and medicare programs. we actively collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies to develop, manufacture, and market certain products or groups of products. these types of agreements are common in the pharmaceutical industry. we may choose to enter into these types of agreements to, among other things, leverage our or our collaborators' scientific r&amp;d expertise, or utilize our extensive marketing and distribution resources. see item 8. note 1 for more information regarding our method for recognizing revenue and expenses related to collaboration agreements, as well as item 8. note 17 for more information regarding our current collaboration agreements. 12 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx recent developments we continue to experience a significant reduction in pricing expectations from historical levels in our rx segment due to industry and competitive pressures. this softness in pricing is attributed to various factors including increased focus from customers to capture supply chain productivity savings, low raw material commodity pricing, competition in specific products, and consolidation of certain customers. we expect this softness to continue to impact the segment for the foreseeable future, and we are forecasting a 9% to 11% pricing decline in this segment for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the prior year. on january 22, 2016, we acquired a portfolio of generic dosage forms and strengths of retin-a (tretinoin), a topical prescription acne treatment, from matawan pharmaceuticals, llc, for $416.4 million in cash ("tretinoin products"). on march 1, 2016, we completed the acquisition of two development-stage specialty rx products to further invest in our specialty rx portfolio. on august 22, 2016, we purchased the remaining 60.9% ownership rights to a generic benzaclin tm product ("generic benzaclin tm "), which we developed and marketed in collaboration with barr laboratories. as a result of this transaction, we are now entitled to 100% of income from sales of the product. on november 10, 2016, we announced that as part of our portfolio review process we are conducting a comprehensive internal evaluation of the rx segment's market position, growth opportunities, and interdependencies with our manufacturing and shared service operations to determine if strategic alternatives should be explored. during the three months ended december 31, 2016, the u.s. market for our entocort (budesonide) capsules, including both brand and authorized generic capsules, experienced significant and unexpected increased competition, reducing our future revenue stream. this led to an impairment charge of $342.2 million related to the entocort intangible asset acquired in 2015. we expect our 2017 net sales to be negatively affected in an amount of approximately $72.0 million. in december 2016, we transitioned our specialty pharmaceutical commercial activities to our partner, exeltis, who will lead sales and marketing efforts for this portfolio of products. we do not expect this transition will have an impact on our net sales. 13 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx products listed below are some of the generic prescription products, including authorized generic and orx products, that we manufacture and/or distribute: generic name (1) comparative brand-name drug adapalene cream differin bacitracin ophthalmic ointment n/a benzoyl peroxide 5% - clindamycin 1% gel benzaclin tm budesonide entocort clindamycin foam evoclin clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel duac clobetasol foam, lotion and shampoo olux , olux-e , clobex desonide cream, ointment desonate , tridesilon dihydroergotamine injection d.h.e. 45 halobetasol ointment and cream ultravate hydrocortisone suppositories n/a mupirocin ointment bactroban nystatin topical powder mycostatin permethrin cream elimite potassium chloride klor-con tacrolimus protopic testosterone 1% gel androgel testosterone cypionate injection depo , testosterone triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray nasacort aq triamcinolone cream/ointment triderm /kenalog (1) contains the same active ingredients present in the same dosage form as the comparable brand-name drug net sales related to new products totaled (in millions): year ended six months ended year ended december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2015 december 27, 2014 june 27, 2015 june 28, 2014 $ 68.0 $ 118.6 $ 41.2 $ 40.4 $ 117.8 $ 104.1 during the year ended december 31, 2016 , we, on our own or in collaboration with partners, received final approval from fda health authorities for four rx drug applications, and as of december 31, 2016 , we had 27 rx drug applications pending approval. sales and marketing our customers include major wholesalers, including cardinal health, mckesson, and amerisourcebergen; sourcing groups such as red oak and clarusone; national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, including walgreens, rite aid, walmart, cvs, kroger, and safeway; hospitals; and pharmacies. orx products are sold to the consumer through the pharmacy counter of predominantly the same retail outlets as our otc pharmaceutical products. 14 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx competition the market for rx products is subject to intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies launching their own generic version of their branded products (known as an authorized generic), manufacturers of branded drug products that continue to produce those products after patent expirations, and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. among our generic drug manufacturer competitors are par pharmeceuticals, apotex corp., glenmark generics inc., impax laboratories, inc., mylan, prasco, llc, sandoz, sun pharmaceuticals, taro pharmaceuticals, teva pharmaceutical industries ltd., triax pharmaceuticals, llc, and zydus pharmaceuticals, inc. we believe that one of our primary competitive advantages is our ability to introduce difficult to develop and/or manufacture topical and other specialty generic versions to brand-name drug products. generally, these products are exposed to less competition due to the relatively longer and more expensive development, clinical trial, and approval processes. in addition, we believe we have a favorable competitive position due primarily to our efficient distribution systems, topical production economies of scale, customer service, and overall reputation. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for more information and risks associated with competition. specialty sciences overview the specialty sciences segment is comprised of assets focused on the treatment of multiple sclerosis, specifically in connection with the drug tysabri (natalizumab). although we divested these assets in march 2017, during the periods covered by this report, we continued to receive contingent payments related to the tysabri royalty stream. these contingent payments are based on a royalty percentage on sales revenue generated by the sale, distribution or other use of the drug tysabri . the specialty sciences segment also includes the ongoing obligations under the sale agreement between biogen and elan for 50% of losses and expenses arising out of any tysabri product liability claims, required insurance coverage and related expenses. we have recorded the tysabri royalty stream as a financial asset and elected to account for this asset using the fair value option method, which incorporates discounted cash flows related to the expected future cash flows to be received. we use significant judgment in determining our valuation inputs, including estimates as to the probability and timing of future sales of tysabri , as well as estimates of the expected future cash flows. the estimated fair value of the asset is subject to variation should those cash flows vary significantly from our estimates. we have performed an evaluation at each reporting period to assess those estimates, discount rates utilized and general market conditions affecting fair value. we were entitled to contingent payments from biogen based on its tysabri sales for all indications and geographies. we received contingent payments that were based on royalties of 12% on worldwide biogen sales of tysabri from december 18, 2013 through april 30, 2014. as of may 1, 2014, we received royalties of 18% on annual worldwide biogen sales of tysabri up to $2.0 billion and 25% on annual sales above $2.0 billion . the cash received from biogen for the royalty percentage on tysabri sales is recorded as cash flows from investing activities in our consolidation statements of cash flow. recent developments in february 2016, a competitor's pipeline product, ocrevus , received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda and was approved in 2017. the product is expected to compete with tysabri and have a significant negative impact on the tysabri royalty stream. although the product has not launched, industry analysts believe that based on released clinical study information, ocrevus will favorably compete against tysabri in the relapsing, remitting multiple sclerosis market segment due to its high efficacy and convenient dosage form. 15 perrigo company plc - item 7 specialty sciences on november 15, 2016, biogen received additional intellectual property protection for tysabri as they were granted a new patent in the u.s. with coverage to 2027. on march 27, 2017 , we announced the completed divestment of our tysabri royalty stream to royalty pharma for up to $2.85 billion , which consists of $2.2 billion in cash and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in milestone payments to us if the royalties on global net sales of tysabri that are received by royalty pharma meet specific thresholds in 2018 and 2020, respectively. as a result of this transaction, we will derecognize the tysabri financial asset in the first quarter of 2017 and we do not expect the disposition to have a material impact on our results. competition tysabri is a complex biological product that is administered under a strict risk and evaluation mitigation strategy ("rems") program. the majority of its patents are protected through 2024. in the event that a patent is invalidated or is infringed upon or a biosimilar is introduced, the financial performance of our specialty sciences segment would be materially adversely affected. tysabri competes with many companies that are working to develop successful new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis, including ocrevus as mentioned above. if any of these competing products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience, or safety, future sales of tysabri could be impacted. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for related risks. other overview we have an other segment that is primarily comprised of sales of api products, which does not meet the quantitative threshold required to be a separate reportable segment. we develop, manufacture, and market api products, which are used worldwide by both generic and branded pharmaceutical companies. certain of these ingredients are used in our own pharmaceutical products. the manufacturing of api occurs primarily in israel with some production in india. api development is focused on the synthesis of less common molecules for the u.s., european, and other global markets. we commercialize api that are critical to our pharmaceutical customers' existing portfolios and future product launches, working closely with these customers on development processes. we are also focusing manufacturing and development activities on the synthesis of molecules for use in our own otc and rx pipeline products. this vertical integration may enable us to be more competitive in the pricing of our product lines. because our api customers depend on high quality supply and regulatory support, we focus on rigorous quality assurance, quality control, and regulatory compliance as part of our strategic positioning. our quality system is designed to comply with the regulatory requirements of the fda, the european medicines agency ("ema"), and other regulatory agencies such as the australian therapeutic goods administration. we are regularly inspected by various regulatory authorities and customers. recent developments on april 6, 2017, we completed the divestment of our india api business to strides shasun limited. as of december 31, 2016, the net assets of our india api business were classified as "held for sale" as discussed in item 8. note 9 . the sale is not expected to have a material impact on our operations or result in a significant gain or (loss) when recorded in the second quarter of 2017. on february 27, 2017, we announced we were exploring strategic alternatives for our israel api operations. 16 perrigo company plc - item 1 other competition since other manufacturers of api typically do not offer all of the same product lines or serve all of the same markets as we do, the business competes on a product-by-product basis with a number of different competitors. our api category is subject to increased price competition from other manufacturers of api located mostly in india, china, and europe. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for information and risks associated with competition. information applicable to all reportable segments research and development r&amp;d is a key component of our business strategy and is performed in various locations in the countries in which we operate. while we conduct a significant amount of our own r&amp;d, we also enter into strategic alliance agreements to obtain the rights to manufacture and/or distribute new products. r&amp;d investments were as follows (in millions): year ended six months ended year ended december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2015 december 27, 2014 june 27, 2015 june 28, 2014 $ 184.0 $ 186.3 $ 88.2 $ 89.8 $ 187.8 $ 152.5 during the years ended december 31, 2016 and june 28, 2014 , we wrote off capitalized in-process research and development from previous acquisitions totaling $3.5 million and $6.0 million , respectively, due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for various projects. the year ended december 31, 2016 included r&amp;d expense related to clinical trial expenses primarily in our chca and rx segments. the year ended december 31, 2015 included incremental r&amp;d expense due to the omega acquisition, and clinical trial expenses primarily in our chca and rx segments. the six months ended december 31, 2015 included incremental r&amp;d expense due to the omega acquisition. the six months ended december 27, 2014 included a $10.0 million payment made in connection with our entry into a collaboration arrangement. the year ended june 27, 2015 also included incremental r&amp;d expense due to the omega acquisition, as well as the payment made in relation to the collaboration arrangement noted above, and an r&amp;d contractual arrangement under which we funded $18.0 million of r&amp;d. the year ended june 28, 2014 included incremental r&amp;d expense attributable to the sergeant's pet care products, inc. ("sergeant's") and velcera inc. ("velcera") acquisitions that closed during the previous year, as well as r&amp;d expense related to the elnd005 phase 2 clinical program in collaboration with transition therapeutics, inc. ("transition"), which we acquired from elan. we ended our collaboration with transition during the third quarter of the year ended june 28, 2014 and are no longer responsible for ongoing development activities and costs associated with elnd005. we anticipate that r&amp;d expenditures will increase in dollar terms but will remain relatively flat to slightly higher as a percentage of net sales for the foreseeable future as we continue to cultivate our presence in the rx-to-otc switch and generic pharmaceutical markets, and develop our internal r&amp;d capabilities. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with innovation and r&amp;d. trademarks and patents while we own certain trademarks and patents, neither our business as a whole, nor any of our segments, is materially dependent upon our ownership of any one trademark, or patent, or group of trademarks or patents. 17 perrigo company plc - item 1 materials sourcing affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets, and components are limited, as they are available from one or only a few suppliers. while we have the ability to manufacture and supply certain api for our otc and rx products, an increasing number of components and finished goods are purchased rather than manufactured because of temporary production limitations, fda restrictions, economic conditions, or other factors. historically, we have been able to react effectively to situations that require alternate sourcing. should such alternate sourcing be necessary, fda requirements placed on products approved through the anda or nda process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. we believe we have good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of our suppliers and have historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to our volume of purchases. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with materials sourcing. manufacturing and distribution our primary manufacturing facilities are in the u.s. we also have secondary manufacturing facilities in the u.k., belgium, france, germany, austria, israel, mexico, australia, and india, along with a joint venture in china. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with our manufacturing facilities. we supplement our production capabilities with the purchase of products from outside sources. the capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times for various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of the cough/cold/flu, allergy, or flea and tick seasons, and new product launches. we may utilize available capacity by performing contract manufacturing for other companies. we have logistics facilities in the u.s., israel, mexico, australia, and numerous locations throughout europe. we use contract freight and common carriers to deliver our products. significant customers our primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current global retail drug industry marketplace. walmart is our largest customer and accounted for the following percentage of consolidated sales: year ended six months ended year ended december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 31, 2015 december 27, 2014 june 27, 2015 june 28, 2014 13 % 14 % 13 % 19 % 16 % 19 % sales to walmart are primarily in the chca segment. as a percentage of our total u.s. otc sales, our sales to walmart generally align with walmart's u.s. retail market share in the products we sell to them. in addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. we believe we generally have good relationships with all of our customers. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with customers. environmental we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. we have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws, but do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations have been or will be material to our business. we do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding. while we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term. 18 perrigo company plc - item 1 corporate social responsibility we are committed to doing business in an ethical manner. we have a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where we are located. as reflected in our corporate social responsibility commitment statement available on our website, we remain committed to: helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable healthcare products; strong corporate governance; complying with regulatory and legal requirements; demonstrating environmental stewardship; continuously improving packaging sustainability; protecting human rights of our global employees and challenging our partners to do the same; diversity of thought, experience and perspective; providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; and establishing effective community partnerships. through these efforts, we strive to minimize our impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices, and ensure the welfare of our employees, their families, and the communities in which we operate now and into the future. government regulation and pricing the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. in addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. we believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for related risks. united states regulation u.s. food and drug administration the fda has jurisdiction over our rx, otc drug products, api, and infant formula foods. the fda's jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of these products. we are committed to consistently providing our customers with high quality products that adhere to "current good manufacturing practices" ("cgmp") regulations promulgated by the fda. otc and rx pharmaceuticals all facilities where rx and otc products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed for the u.s. market must comply with fda cgmps and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries, states and localities where the facilities are located. all of our drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cgmp regulations. the fda performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. many of our otc products are regulated under the otc monograph system and subject to certain fda regulations. under this system, selected otc drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing. products marketed under the otc monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula, and labeling requirements, including permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients, and dosage levels. it is generally less costly to develop and bring to market a product regulated under the otc monograph system. we also market generic prescription drugs and non-prescription products that have switched from prescription to otc status. prior to commercial marketing, these products require approval by the fda of an anda or nda that provides information on chemistry, manufacturing controls, clinical safety, efficacy and/or bioequivalence, packaging, and labeling. while the development process for these drugs generally requires less 19 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation time and expense than the development process of a new drug, the size and duration of required studies can vary greatly. prior to the onset of the generic drug user fee amendments of 2012 ( gdufa ), the fda approval of generic drug applications took approximately three to five times longer than approval of innovator drugs. median anda approval times were reported at approximately 48 months. pursuant to gdufa, beginning october 1, 2016, year five of the program, the fda pledged to complete a first cycle review on 90% of electronic generic applications within 10 months of submission. the fda has ceased reporting median anda approval times, however the generic industry has observed continued progress in fda performance towards reducing anda approval times. under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended ("ffdca") (the hatch-waxman amendments), a company submitting an nda can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for a prescription or otc product if it performs a clinical study that is essential to fda approval. longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs (those designated under section 526 of the ffdca) and drugs under the generating antibiotic incentives now act. during this exclusivity period, the fda cannot approve any andas for a similar or equivalent generic product, which can preclude another party from marketing a similar product during this period. a company may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity if it conducts pediatric studies requested by the fda on the product. this exclusivity can delay both the fda approval and sales of certain products. a company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for certain products. this exclusivity period often follows a patent certification and litigation process whereby the product innovator may sue for infringement. the legal action does not ordinarily result in material damages, but it generally triggers a statutorily mandated delay in fda approval of the anda for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge. the food and drug administration safety and innovation act ("fdasia") was signed into law on july 9, 2012. the law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, fda authority concerning drug shortages, changes to enhance the fda's inspection authority of the drug supply chain, and a limited extension of the 30-month stay provision described above. the fdasia also reduced the time required for fda responses to generic-blocking citizen petitions. we implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of the fdasia, and we monitor facility self-identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications. the u.s. government's federal drug supply chain security act ("dscsa") requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. the serialization of all rx products distributed in the u.s. needs to be completed by november 27, 2017, with the requirement for tracking the products commencing on november 27, 2023. requirements for the tracing of products at the lot level through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain went into effect on january 1, 2015 for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. infant formula and foods the fda's center for food safety and applied nutrition is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. the office of nutrition, labeling and dietary supplements ("onlds") has labeling responsibility for infant formula, while the office of food additive safety ("ofas") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. the onlds evaluates whether an infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the ffdca and consults with the ofas regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula. all manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. the infant formula act provides specific requirements for infant formula to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum and, in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients. before marketing a particular infant formula, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation consistent with the fda's labeling, nutrient content, and 20 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation manufacturer quality control requirements. a manufacturer must notify the fda at least 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. we actively monitor this process and make the appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with recent fda rules regarding cgmp, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records for the production of infant formulas. in addition, the ffdca requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life; to keep records on production, testing, and distribution of each batch of infant formula; to use cgmp and quality control procedures; and to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which may reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. the fda conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula, inspects new facilities during early production runs, and collects and analyzes samples of infant formula. our infant and toddler foods are subject to the food safety modernization act ("fsma"), which protects the safety of u.s. foods by mandating comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. under fsma, the fda has mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers and is taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of a safety issue. active pharmaceutical ingredients we develop and manufacture api in israel and india for export to the u.s. and other global markets. before api can be commercialized in the u.s., we must submit a drug master file ("dmf") that provides the proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. the fda inspects the manufacturing facilities to assess cgmp compliance, and the facilities and procedures must be cgmp compliant before api may be exported to the u.s. the facilities and products are subject to regulation by the applicable regulatory bodies in the place of manufacture as well as the regulatory agency in the country from which the product is exported or imported. our israeli facility has been approved by the u.s. fda, israel ministry of health ("imoh"), federal commission for the protection against sanitary risks of mexico, pharmaceutical and medical devices agency of japan, and the korean food and drug administration and has received gmp certification from imoh. our india facility has been inspected by the u.s. fda and has received gmp certification from the indian fda. for api exported to european markets, we submit a european dmf and, where applicable, obtain a certificate of suitability from the european directorate for the quality of medicines. the manufacturing facilities and production procedures for api marketed in europe must meet eu-gmp and european pharmacopeia standards. u.s. department of agriculture the organic foods production act enacted under title 21 of the 1990 farm bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic." our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio adhere to the standards of the u.s. department of agriculture ("usda") national organic program for production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio are usda-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for u.s. and canadian markets. u.s. environmental protection agency the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") is the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show that their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the united states, pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. 21 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation u.s. drug enforcement administration the u.s. drug enforcement administration ("dea") regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, testosterone, midazolam, and list i chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal controlled substances act ("csa"). the csa and dea regulations impose registration, security, record keeping, reporting, storage, manufacturing, distribution, importation and other requirements upon legitimate handlers under the oversight of the dea. the dea categorizes controlled substances into schedules i, ii, iii, iv, or v, with varying qualifications for listing in each schedule. we are subject to the requirements regarding the controlled substances in schedules ii - v and the list i chemicals. our facilities that manufacture, distribute, import, or export any controlled substances must register annually with the dea. the dea inspects all manufacturing facilities to review security, record keeping, reporting, and handling prior to issuing a controlled substance registration, and it also periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the csa and its regulations. failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements, particularly as manifested in the loss or diversion of controlled substances, can result in enforcement action, such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registration, or the initiation of proceedings to revoke those registrations. in certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal prosecution. we are also subject to state legislation regulating the manufacture and distribution of certain products. medicaid drug rebate program and other drug pricing programs u.s. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of having federal funds being made available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b, enter into three government pricing program agreements: (i) a medicaid rebate agreement with the secretary of health and human services ( hhs ) to pay rebates to state medicaid programs for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program; (ii) a 340b program agreement with the secretary of hhs to provide discounts to certain covered entity safety net health care providers; and (iii) a master agreement with the department of veterans affairs ("va") under which discounts are available for purchases by federal agencies. we have such agreements in effect. the medicaid rebate agreement requires the drug manufacturer to remit rebates to each state medicaid agency on a quarterly basis for both fee-for-service and medicaid managed care organization utilization. rebate amounts are based on pricing data reported by the manufacturer to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), including average manufacturer price ("amp") and, in the case of innovator products, best price ("bp"). u.s. law also requires that a company that participates in the medicaid rebate program report average sales price ("asp") information to cms for each calendar quarter for certain categories of drugs that are paid under part b of the medicare program. cms uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under medicare part b. under the medicaid rebate program, the minimum rebate amounts due are as follows: (i) for noninnovator products, in general generic drugs marketed under andas, the rebate amount is 13% of the amp for the quarter; and (ii) for innovator products, in general brand-name products marketed under ndas, the rebate amount is the greater of 23.1% of the amp for the quarter or the difference between such amp and the bp for that same quarter. manufacturers also pay an additional rebate" on innovator drugs where price increases since launch have outpaced inflation. beginning with the first quarter of 2017, an additional rebate is due for noninnovator products, which is calculated somewhat differently from the innovator product additional rebate. cms issued a final regulation, generally effective april 1, 2016, to implement changes to the medicaid rebate program under the 2010 health reform legislation ( health reform law ) and otherwise to program guidance. in addition to this guidance concerning rebate program administration matters, the regulation also addressed certain related medicaid reimbursement matters. first, under the health reform law, cms has also begun to use manufacturer amp data to calculate reimbursement limits for pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ("ful"). cms also surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. second, the regulation also directs states to update their medicaid payment methodologies to provide for payment amounts designed to reflect pharmacies' actual acquisition costs for drugs and to provide the government with findings to support their compliance with this standard. 22 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation pricing and rebate calculations are governed by statutory and regulatory requirements that are complex, vary among products and programs, can change over time, and are subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies , and the courts. in the case of the medicaid rebate program, if we become aware of errors in our prior price submissions, or a prior bp submission needs to be updated due to late arriving data, we must resubmit the updated data within specified time frames. such restatements and recalculations increase our cost of compliance with the medicaid rebate program, and corrections can result in an overage or underage of our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. the 340b drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340b ceiling price for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. the ceiling price is derived from the data the manufacturer reports under the medicaid rebate program and therefore any changes to statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to the medicaid price figures may impact the 340b ceiling price calculation as well. 340b covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the public health service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. u.s. law also requires any company that participates in the medicaid rebate program and medicare part b and that wants its covered drugs paid for by certain federal agencies and grantees to enter into a master agreement with the va. under the master agreement, the company must offer its innovator drugs for procurement under the federal supply schedule ( fss ) pricing program, and must charge certain agencies (va, department of defense, public health service and the coast guard) no more than a statutory federal ceiling price ( fcp ). the fcp is calculated based on non-federal average manufacturer price ( nfamp ) data we submit to the va. fss contracts include extensive disclosure and certification requirements and standard government terms and conditions with which we must comply. consistent with va's interpretation of the master agreement, we have also entered into an agreement to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to tricare beneficiaries by tricare network retail pharmacies. see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks related to the above-mentioned programs. other u.s. regulations and organizations we are subject to various other national, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: physician payment sunshine act - this act requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977 ("fcpa") - this act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. federal trade commission ("ftc") - this agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. the ftc considers whether a product's claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. the ftc also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. international organization for standardization ("iso") - the iso standards specify requirements for a quality management system that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. our infant formula manufacturing sites are iso 9001-2008 certified for quality management systems. iso inspections are conducted at least annually. 23 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation united states pharmacopeial convention, inc. ("usp") - the usp is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. by reference, the ffdca incorporates the usp quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product's labeling. usp standards exist for most rx and otc pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. the fda typically requires usp compliance as part of cgmp compliance. health insurance portability and accountability act ("hipaa") - we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. consumer product safety commission ("cpsc") - the cpsc has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. the manufacturer of any product that is subject to any cpsc rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with cpsc requirements. other state agencies - we are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state. regulation outside the u.s. we develop and manufacture products and market third-party manufactured products in regions outside the u.s., including eastern and western europe, israel, mexico, australia, countries in asia, south america, the middle east, and russia, each of which has its own regulatory environment. the majority of our sales outside the u.s. are in the following categories: otc/rx pharmaceuticals, medical devices, dietary supplements and cosmetics. european union otc and rx pharmaceuticals the european pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the european parliament and the european commission. this has many benefits, including the potential to harmonize standards across the complex european market. however, obtaining regulatory agreement across member states presents complex challenges that can lead to delays in the regulatory process. in the european union ( eu ), as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of medicinal products is regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the u.s. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any medicinal product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. the registration file relating to any particular product must contain data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and/or references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. between 1995 and 1998, the over-arching legislation that governs medicinal products was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. this revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition procedure ( mrp ), whereby after approval of a marketing authorization by regulatory authorities in the reference member state ( rms ), additional marketing authorizations could be submitted to other concerned member states to obtain a product license. in november 2005, the medicinal product legislation was further revised to introduce the decentralized procedure ( dcp ) whereby marketing authorizations are submitted simultaneously to the rms and select concerned member states. in 2005, the ema also opened up the centralized procedure to sponsors of marketing authorizations for generic medicinal products. unlike the mrp and dcp, the centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization and product labeling across all member states that will allow a sponsor to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the eu countries listed on the application. 24 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation marketing authorizations and subsequent product licenses are granted to applicants only after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product. in addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer's facilities obtain approval from an eu regulatory authority. the eu has a code of gmp that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. regulatory authorities in the eu may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems, and personnel qualifications. we believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject. eu member states had to transpose the european falsified medicines directive (the directive ) into national law by january 2, 2013. the transposition process is now complete. the provisions of the directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of api manufactured outside of the eu. the directive required the serialization of all rx and some otc products, similar to the dscsa in the u.s. in the eu, member states regulate the pricing of prescription medicinal products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. this regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. these individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. the implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally tendering refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country. data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, although the application is not uniform. in general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. as these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. the requirements deriving from european pharmacovigilance legislation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors' expectations. pharmacovigilance fee legislation became effective in late 2014 to support health authority assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals. once approved, the advertising of pharmaceuticals in the eu is governed by national regulations and guidelines. within certain member states this is overseen by a self-certification process whereas in others national governance bodies approve material prior to release. the wholesale distribution of medicinal products is an important activity in the integrated supply chain management. the quality and the integrity of medicinal products can be affected by a lack of adequate control. to this end, the eu commission has published guidelines on good distribution practice of medicinal products for human use in 2013. the present guidelines are based on articles 84 and 85b(3) of medicinal products for human use directive. medical devices the eu has enacted into law numerous directives and adopted many harmonizing standards pertaining to a wide range of industrial products, including medical devices. medical devices that comply with the requirements of applicable directives are entitled to bear the ce marking of conformity, which indicates that the device conforms to the applicable requirements of the directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout europe. the method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an organization accredited by a member state. assessment by a notified body includes an audit of the manufacturer's quality system and may also include specific testing of the product. this assessment is a prerequisite for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the eu. dietary supplements 25 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation dietary supplements are subject to several regulations that inform the selection of ingredient levels and how products can be described on packaging and in advertising. these regulations include: food supplements directive 2002/46/ec, food information to consumers regulation (eu) no 1169/2011, permitted vitamins and minerals regulation (ec) 1170/2009, food additives regulation (ec) 1333/2008, and nutritional &amp; health claims regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, and starting in july 2016, the foods intended for particular nutritional uses directive 2009/39/ec &amp; regulation (eu) 609/2013. eu rules on nutrition and health claims, which were established by regulation ec 1924/2006, apply to any nutritional or health claim by a manufacturer. the objective of the regulation is to ensure that claims made in food labeling or advertising are clear, accurate and based on scientific evidence. the european food safety authority, an advisory panel to the european commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. an eu register of nutrition and health claims exists to document approved, pending, and rejected claims. cosmetics cosmetic products in the eu market must comply with regulation ec no. 1223/2009. this regulation requires manufacturers to prepare a product safety report prior to placing a cosmetic product in the market. in addition, for each cosmetic product placed in the market, a responsible person must be designated to oversee compliance with the regulation's reporting requirements. commission regulation eu no. 655/2013 establishes the common criteria and justification for claims to be used in the packaging and advertising of cosmetics products. employees as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately 12,800 full-time and temporary employees worldwide of which a small portion of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. we consider our employee relations generally satisfactory. available information our principal executive offices are located at treasury building, lower grand canal street, dublin 2, ireland and our north american base of operations is located at 515 eastern avenue, allegan, michigan 49010. our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. our website address is www.perrigo.com , where we make available free of charge our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission ("sec"). these filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il . item 1a. risk factors risks related to operations we face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical and consumer goods companies that may threaten the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our products compete against store brand, generic, and branded pharmaceutical companies. competition is also impacted by changes in regulations and government pricing programs that may give competitors an advantage. as a manufacturer of generic versions of brand-name drugs through our chca and rx segments, we experience competition from brand-name drug companies that may try to prevent, discourage or delay the use of generic versions through various measures, including introduction of new branded products, legislative initiatives, changing dosage forms or dosing regimens, regulatory processes, filing new patents or patent extensions, lawsuits, citizens' petitions, and negative publicity prior to introduction of a generic product. in addition, brand-name competitors may lower their prices to compete with generic products, increase advertising, or launch, either through an affiliate or licensing arrangements with another company, an authorized generic at or near the time the first generic product is launched, depriving the generic product potential market exclusivity. 26 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our chca and rx segments also experience competition from our generic competitors, some of whom are significantly larger than we are, who may develop their products more rapidly or complete regulatory approval processes sooner, or may market their products earlier than we do. in the u.s., if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, which would prevent us from selling the product during the exclusivity period. even if we are the first to file, in certain circumstances, we may not be able to fully exploit our 180-day exclusivity period. our chca and rx segments may experience increased price competition as other generic companies produce the same product, sometimes for dramatically lower margins in order to gain market share. other generic companies may introduce new drugs and/or drug delivery techniques that make our current products less desirable. a drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity, and thereafter we may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars. the pharmaceutical industry is consolidating. this creates larger competitors and places further pressure on prices, development activities, and customer retention. our animal health category within the chca segment has seen an increase in direct to consumer advertising by several branded competitors, which may increase in the future, and our nutritionals category has experienced increased competition through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail, and direct sales. we develop and distribute branded products primarily through our chci segment. we experience competition from other brand-name drug companies, many of which are larger and have more resources to devote to advertising and marketing. these direct competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. our current and future competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those offered by us at more competitive prices. if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed through loss of customers or increased negative pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our operating results. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market innovative products that meet customer demands, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. our continued growth is due in large part to our ability to develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer requirements for quality, safety, efficacy, and cost effectiveness. continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to our business. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market new products, we could lose market share, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. see item 1. business - research and development for more information. we maintain a diversified product line to function as a primary supplier for our customers. capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. our future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. in addition, if we fail to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, we may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions. our product margins may decline over time due to our products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice, changes in competition for our existing products, or the introduction of next generation innovative products; therefore, new product introductions are necessary to maintain our current financial condition. if we are unable to continue to create new products, we may lose market share or experience pricing pressure, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. we must prove that the regulated generic drug products in our chca and rx segments are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which requires bioequivalence studies, and in the case of topical products, even more extensive clinical endpoint trials to demonstrate their efficacy. the development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly, and subject to a high degree of business risk. products currently under development may require re-design to meet evolving fda standards, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies, or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges. necessary regulatory 27 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. any of these events may negatively impact our net sales. our ability to attract and retain scientists proficient in emerging delivery forms and/or contracting with a third party in order to generate new products of this type is critical to our long-term plans. if we fail to attract and retain this talent, our long-term sales growth and profit could be adversely impacted. even upon the successful development of a product, our customers' failure to launch a product successfully, or delays in manufacturing, could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the fda or similar regulatory agency could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain regulatory clearance to launch new formulations into the market, which could negatively impact our future net sales. our chca and chci segments are impacted by changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to adapt to these changes, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. while the market for store brand products has grown in recent years, there can be no assurance that the pace of this growth will continue. consumer preferences related to health and nutritional concerns may change, which could negatively impact demand for our chca and chci products or cause us to incur additional costs to change our products or product packaging. the future growth and stability of u.s. store brand market share will be impacted, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products. our chca segment sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and consumers return to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products. conversely, while store brand products present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, if economic conditions deteriorate, our chca segment sales could be negatively impacted if consumers forgo obtaining healthcare or reduce their healthcare spending. our chci segment's success is dependent on the continued growth in demand for its lifestyle products, which include weight-loss products and various dietary supplements. if demand for these products decreases, our chci segment's results of operations would be negatively impacted. our chca customers may request changes in packaging to meet consumer demands, which could cause us to incur inventory obsolescence charges and redesign costs, which in turn would negatively impact our chca segment's results of operations. our infant formula product category within our chca segment is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. our business depends, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. to the extent that private, public, and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products. we could also be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the u.s. federal government through the women, infants and children program, as we do not participate in this program. we operate in a highly regulated industry, and any inability to timely meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. we are subject to the regulations of a variety of u.s. and non-u.s. agencies related to the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products as described in detail in item 1. business - government regulation and pricing . government regulation in the markets in which we operate could impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. below are some of the ways in which government regulation could impact our business and/or financial results: 28 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we must obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies in order to manufacture and sell our products in the regions in which we operate. obtaining this approval can be time consuming and costly. there can be no assurance that, in the event we submit an application for a marketing authorization to any global regulatory agency, we will obtain the approval to market a product and/or that we will obtain it on a timely basis. laws unique to the u.s. regulatory framework encourage generic competition by providing eligibility for first generic marketing exclusivity if certain conditions are met. if we are granted generic exclusivity, the exclusivity may be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics; or it is possible that we may forfeit 180-day exclusivity if we do not obtain regulatory approval or begin marketing the product within the statutory requirements. finally, if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of our product. global regulatory agencies regularly inspect our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our third-party suppliers. the failure of one of our facilities, or a facility of one of our third-party suppliers, to comply with applicable laws and regulations may lead to a breach of representations made to our customers, or to regulatory or government action against us related to the products made in that facility. such action could include suspension of or delay in regulatory approvals. if the compliance violations are severe, agencies of the government may initiate product seizure, injunction, recall, suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, or civil or criminal prosecution, thereby impacting the reputation of all of our products. in the u.s., the dscsa requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period beginning on january 1, 2015, for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. similarly, the european commission passed legislation requiring new product packaging safety features' to prevent falsification of medicinal products primarily within the prescription medicines sector. the act was adopted february 9, 2016. eu member states (with the exception of belgium, italy and greece), and eea members norway, iceland, liechtenstein and switzerland must be in compliance within three years, or by february 9, 2019. belgium, italy, and greece have until february 9, 2025 to comply. marketing authorization holders will have three years from the publication date to implement the necessary changes or risk forfeiting their product licenses. compliance with the new u.s. and eu electronic pedigree requirements may increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. global regulatory agencies highly scrutinize any product application submitted to switch a product from physician prescribed rx to unsupervised otc use by the general public. the expansion of rx-to-otc switches is critical to our future growth. reluctance of regulatory agencies to approve rx-to-otc switches in new product categories could impact that growth. several bills have been introduced in u.s. congress that could, if enacted, affect the manufacture and marketing of rx and otc drugs including labeling and packaging. for example, the fda is proposing to change existing regulations to permit generic drug application holders to revise their labeling without prior fda review to add new safety information that may differ from the corresponding brand drug. the fda has delayed publication of the final rule until april 2017. if this proposed regulatory change is adopted without further revision, it may eliminate the preemption of certain failure-to-warn claims, with respect to generic drugs, which could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results. regulatory bodies outside of the u.s. could enact similar legislation. we cannot predict whether further label restrictions may be required, or whether additional regulations in the u.s. or other countries in which we operate, may be passed. our infant formula products may be subject to barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and dictating the specific content of infant formula products. governments could enhance regulations on the industry aimed at ensuring the safety and quality of dairy products, including, but not limited to, compulsory batch-by-batch inspection and testing for additional safety and quality issues. such inspections and testing may increase our operating costs related to infant formula products. 29 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors on june 10, 2014, the fda published a final rule ("fr") entitled "current good manufacturing practices, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and records and reports, for infant formula." the fr includes, among other things, new or modified requirements related to infant formula manufacturing, quality controls, record-keeping, and clinical trials. our infant formula manufacturing facilities have been inspected by the fda after the effective date of the fr and found to be in full compliance with the new gmp regulations with no corrective actions required some of our pharmaceutical products are marketed through direct interactions with healthcare professionals, which is known as detailing. this activity is subject to extensive regulation under a variety of u.s. laws and regulations, including anti-kickback, anti-bribery, and false claims laws; the ffdca with respect to claims and off-label promotions; and similar laws in non-u.s. jurisdictions. if our marketing activities are found to be improper, we could be subject to civil and governmental actions and penalties. these risks may increase as non-u.s. jurisdictions adopt new anti-bribery laws and regulations. if we are unable to successfully obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances and list i chemicals, we risk having delayed product launches or failing to meet commercial supply obligations. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements for controlled substances and list i chemicals, the dea, or similar regulatory agency, may take regulatory actions, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution of our products, withdrawal of our products from the market, or other penalties. changes to the medical device directive are anticipated in 2017, based on a proposal for new european medical device regulation, which has been under discussion since 2012. these changes are expected to include increased supervision by the notified bodies by competent authorities and revisions to documentation requirements. we will monitor the regulation's progress and cannot currently predict how it will impact the future production and sale of products classified as medical devices. at this time, work is ongoing to translate the final text of the regulation in all the eu official languages and to correct technical inconsistencies. final formal adoption is expected both on the council and the parliament sides during the first quarter of 2017 . our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, such as restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies. we must also comply with a variety of u.s. laws related to doing business outside of the u.s., including office of foreign asset controls, united nations and eu sanctions; the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. further changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare, may affect our business and operations. healthcare reform and related changes to reimbursement methods in and outside of the united states may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. increasing healthcare expenditures have received considerable public attention in many of the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., government programs such as medicare and medicaid, as well as private insurers, have been focused on cost containment. in the eu and some other markets outside the u.s., the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. our rx segment in particular could be materially adversely impacted by measures taken by governmental entities or private insurers to restrict patients' access to our products or increase pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases, and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. these actions may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices or may reduce the ability of customers to pay for our products, which could materially negatively impact the rx segment's results of operations. 30 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors significant uncertainty exists regarding the effect of the affordable care act, particularly in light of the new u.s. administration following the recent elections and campaign pledges to repeal or reform the affordable care act. however, if the law is maintained in its current form, it appears likely that it would continue the downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. if we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. as described in item 1. business - medicaid drug rebate programs , we have a medicaid rebate agreement and va master agreement in effect with the u.s. government. there are inherent risks associated with participating in the medicaid drug rebate program, and the va fss program, including the following: by their nature, these programs require us to provide discounts and rebates and therefore reduce our net product revenues. further, because the amounts of these discounts are based on our commercial sales practices, it is important that we maintain pricing practices that appropriately take into account these government pricing programs. we are required to report pricing data to cms, including amp, on a monthly and quarterly basis and bp and asp on a quarterly basis. we also are required to report quarterly and annual non-famps to the va. if we fail to submit required information, make misrepresentations, or knowingly submit false information to the government as to amp, asp, or bp, we may be liable for substantial civil monetary penalties or subject to other enforcement actions, such as under the false claims act, and cms may terminate our medicaid drug rebate agreement. in that event, u.s. federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs. the health reform law enacted in 2010 requires the use of amp data to calculate fuls for multiple source drugs and amends the statutory definitions of amp and "multiple source drug" in a manner that materially affects the calculation of fuls. cms surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. cms's final medicaid rebate program also directs states to revise their payment methods to establish payment rates consistent with actual acquisition costs. based on our initial evaluation, we do not believe that the changes will have a material impact on our business. however, states are continuing to evaluate their payment methods and we cannot predict how the new ful or state payment methodologies will affect our pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers may seek additional discounts in light of reimbursement changes. we also cannot predict how the sharing of ful data and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace. under the 340b program, if we fail to provide required discounts to covered entities, we may be subject to refund claims or civil money penalties under that program. if we inadvertently overcharge the government in connection with our fss contract or tricare agreement, whether due to a misstated fcp or otherwise, we would be required to refund the difference. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in false claims act allegations or potential violations of other laws and regulations. unexpected refunds to the government, and responses to a government investigation or enforcement action, are expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. our calculations and methodologies are subject to review by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that these reviews could result in challenges to our submissions. if we do not comply with those reporting and payment obligations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare programs (including medicaid and medicare). 31 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors lack of availability, or significant increases in the cost, of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results. affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. in addition, maintaining good supply relationships is essential to our ongoing operations. see item 1. business - materials sourcing for more information. we maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher-volume or more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of net sales. additionally, global regulatory requirements for obtaining product approvals could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. as a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers could have a negative material impact on our financial results. our infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder, and lactose. our supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality we deem necessary. raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond our control including seasonal and environmental factors, governmental agricultural and environmental policy, and global demand. we cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients necessary to produce infant formula. our products, and the raw materials used to make those products, generally have limited shelf lives. our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. we may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. cargo thefts and/or diversions, and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may occur, causing unexpected shortages, which may have a material impact on our operations. we rely on third parties to source many of our raw materials, as well as to manufacture sterile, injectable products that we distribute. we maintain a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants, and toxic substances. nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes, or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of the contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. any future recall or removal would result in additional costs and lost revenue, harm our reputation, and may give rise to product liability litigation. changes in regulation could impact the supply of the api and certain other raw materials used in our products. for example, the eu recently promulgated new standards requiring all api imported into the eu be certified as complying with gmp established by the eu. the regulations placed the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries, which led to an api supply shortage in europe as certain governments were not willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api or other raw ingredients could cause us to have to cease manufacture of certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers are unable to export. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow. 32 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors a disruption at any of our main manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a few locations. see item 1. business - manufacturing and distribution for more information on our significant operations. a significant disruption at one or more of these facilities, whether it be due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, intentional acts of vandalism, war, terrorism, insufficient quality, or pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business. additionally, regulatory authorities routinely inspect all of our manufacturing facilities for cgmp compliance. while our manufacturing sites are cgmp compliant, if a regulatory authority were to identify serious adverse findings not corrected upon follow up inspections, we may be required to issue product recalls, shutdown manufacturing facilities, and take other remedial actions. if any manufacturing facility were forced to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. any breach or disruption of our information systems or cyber security efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business. our systems, information, and operations, as well as our independent vendor relationships (where they support information technology and manufacturing infrastructure), are highly complex and vulnerable to disruption or damage from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, sabotage, industrial espionage, and computer viruses. such events may be difficult to detect; and, once detected, their impact may be difficult to assess. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. these risks include: breaches or disruptions could impair our ability to develop, meet regulatory approval efforts for, produce, and/or ship products, take and fulfill orders, and/or collect and make payments on a timely basis; any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower sales volume, and incur significant liabilities; and we could incur significant expense in addressing a disruption and related data security and privacy concerns. because our business depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of our sales, our business would be adversely affected by a disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' businesses. sales to our largest customer, walmart, comprised approximately 13% of our total sales for the year ended december 31, 2016 . while no other customer individually comprised more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. if our relationship with walmart or any of our other significant customers, including the terms of doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on us. see item 1. business - significant customers for more information. many of our customers, which include chain drug stores, wholesalers, distributors, hospital systems, and group purchasing organizations, continue to merge or consolidate. such consolidation has provided, and may continue to provide, customers with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures we face. the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. in addition, a number of our customers have instituted sourcing programs limiting the number of suppliers of generic pharmaceutical products carried by that customer. these developments have resulted in heightened pricing pressure on our products, as well as competition among generic drug producers for business from a smaller and more selective customer base. additionally, if we are unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, and/or end their relationships with us. 33 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors although we have divested our rights to the tysabri royalty stream, we are entitled to additional milestone payments if certain specified thresholds are met , and any negative developments related to tysabri could have a material adverse effect on our receipt of those payments. we occasionally enter into arrangements that entitle us to potential royalties from third parties. our most significant royalty has been the tysabri royalty stream received quarterly from biogen, which generated $353.7 million of cash received during the year ended december 31, 2016. see item 1. business - significant customers for more information on our tysabri royalty arrangement. on march 27, 2017, we divested our rights to the tysabri royalty stream to royalty pharma for $2.2 billion in cash at closing and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in milestone payments if global net sales of tysabri meet specific thresholds in 2018 and 2020, respectively. our receipt of these milestone payments may be negatively impacted if the royalty streams decrease and are insufficient to meet the specified thresholds. factors that may have an adverse effect on the tysabri royalty stream include: companies working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis that, if successfully developed, would compete with, or could gain greater acceptance than, tysabri and damage tysabri 's market share. in february 2016, a competitor's pipeline product, ocrevus , received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda, and was approved in 2017. the product is expected to compete with tysabri and have a significant negative impact on the tysabri royalty stream; biogen is the owner of the patents on tysabri . the loss of protection of these patents, such as a patent invalidation, could adversely affect the royalty stream from tysabri . in addition, once the tysabri patents expire, other generic companies may introduce products similar to tysabri that could adversely affect the royalty stream; foreign currency movement, which could have a negative impact on biogen's tysabri sales, thereby reducing the royalties; any negative developments relating to tysabri , such as safety, efficacy, or reimbursement issues, could reduce demand for tysabri ; and adverse regulatory or legislative developments could limit or prohibit the sale of tysabri , such as restrictions on the use of tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, which may significantly reduce expected royalty revenue and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. additionally, tysabri sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings on the label, including the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ("pml"), a serious brain infection. the risk of developing pml may increase with prior immunosuppressant use, longer treatment duration, or the presence of certain antibodies. increased incidence of pml could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label, or result in market withdrawal. in addition, the result of ongoing or future clinical trials involving tysabri or other adverse events reported in association with the use of tysabri may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of tysabri . furthermore, there can be no assurance that royalty pharma will pay either or both of the milestone payments even if the specified thresholds are met. we are dependent on the services of certain key members of management. recently, we replaced our chief financial officer, chief executive officer and the general managers of both our chci and rx segments. our inability to successfully manage the transition with respect to these key executives, or the failure to attract and retain other key members of management, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 34 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. key functions for us include executive managers, operational managers, r&amp;d scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists, and sales/marketing personnel. if we are unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, our future operating results may be adversely impacted. in april 2016, we announced that our former chairman and chief executive officer, joseph c. papa, resigned from the company and that john t. hendrickson, formerly our president, was appointed to serve as our new chief executive officer. mr. hendrickson was later appointed to serve as a member of our board of directors. in april 2016, we announced that the former executive vice president and general manager of our chci segment, marc coucke, resigned from the company and that our current executive vice president and general manager, international, sharon kochan, would undertake expanded responsibilities that include providing leadership and strategic direction to our chci segment. on november 8, 2016, we appointed john wesolowski the general manager, president rx . mr. wesolowski served as acting general manager, rx following the resignation of doug boothe on july 20, 2016. on february 27, 2017, we announced that our executive vice president, business operations and chief financial officer, judy l. brown resigned from the company and ron winowiecki, formerly our senior vice president, business finance, was appointed acting chief financial officer of the company. on february 27, 2017, we announced the appointment of svend andersen to the position of executive vice president and president, consumer healthcare international. if these management transitions are not successful, or if we are unable to attract or retain other key qualified employees, our future operating results may be adversely impacted. unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products, and may be affected by changing consumer preferences. negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations, or recalls, regardless of whether they involve us or our products. the mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients, or concerns about our products or the materials used in our products, could discourage consumers from buying our products, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported. our products involve risks such as product contamination, spoilage, mislabeling, and tampering that could require us to recall one or more of our products. serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against us that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses, delays in the issuance of governmental approvals for new products, or other governmental penalties, all of which could be detrimental to our reputation and reduce demand for our products. we cannot guarantee that counterfeiting, imitation or other tampering with our products will not occur or that we will be able to detect and resolve it. any counterfeiting or contamination of any products could negatively impact our reputation and sales, particularly if counterfeit or imitation products cause death or injury to consumers. many of the brands we acquired from omega have european recognition. this recognition is the result of the large investments omega has made in its products over many years. the quality and safety of the products are critical to our business. if we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, 35 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors including concerns about safety, quality, efficacy, or similar matters, sentiments toward us and our products could be negatively impacted. our chci segment's financial success is dependent on the success of its brands, and the success of these brands can suffer if marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers and the performance of the segment may be negatively impacted if spending on such plans and initiatives does not generate the returns we anticipate. in addition, given the association of individual products within the commercial network of our chci segment, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of other products, thereby potentially hurting our financial results. powdered infant formula products are not sterile. all of our infant formula products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. depending on the product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw materials, the processing and packaging of food products, and the use and handling by consumers, hospital personnel, and healthcare professionals. in the event that certain of our infant formula products are found or alleged to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not under our control, our reputation and our infant formula product category sales could be materially adversely affected. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputation damage. the company and our employees increasingly utilize social media as a means of internal and external communication. to the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. a violation of such guidelines may damage our reputation as well as cause potential lawsuits and adversely affect our operating activities. our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. negative posts or comments about us, store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation and could adversely affect the price of our securities. in addition, negative posts or comments about our products could result in increased pharmacovigilance reporting requirements, which may give rise to liability if we fail to fully comply with such requirements. our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of our management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. some of the factors that may impact our quarterly results include the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu and allergy seasons, the flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by us and our competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in accounting pronouncements, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by our customers, and the timing of retailer promotional programs. these and other factors may result in significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. we may not be able to improve operating results in our business segments. 36 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we have experienced a reduction in pricing expectations during 2016 in comparison to historical patterns in our u.s. businesses, in particular in our rx segment, due to industry and competitive pressures in the sector. the reduced pricing is attributable to a variety of factors including increased focus from customers to capture supply chain productivity savings, low raw material commodity pricing, competition in specific product categories, the loss of exclusivity on certain products, the recent increase in the speed and number of approvals from the fda, and consolidation of certain customers in the rx segment. we have seen year-over-year pricing erosion in the second half of 2016 moderate from the levels experienced in the first half of 2016. we expect this pricing environment to continue to impact the company for the foreseeable future. the chci segment has been impacted by market dynamics in key countries such as belgium, france, germany and italy due to softness in certain brand categories and by unfavorable foreign currency impacts, primarily in the u.k. related to brexit. in addition, the segment had been impacted in belgium by a change in the forecast with a major wholesaler, as management implements improved supply chain efficiencies in this market. the chci segment has restructured its approach to addressing these markets including: (1) implementing a brand prioritization strategy to address these market dynamics, with an objective to balance the cost of advertising and promotional investments with expected contributions from category sales, (2) restructuring its sales force in each of these markets to more effectively serve customers, and (3) exiting certain unfavorable distribution agreements. the combination of these actions are expected to improve the segment's focus on higher value otc products, reduce selling costs and improve operating margins in the segment. there can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience challenges related to our segments, and these challenges could have a material impact on our business, cash flows, and results of operations or result in impairment charges, and the market value of our ordinary shares and/or debt securities may decline. we may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in the normal course of business we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions and divestitures. these transactions are accompanied by a number of risks. many of these risks are beyond our control, and any one of them could result in increased cost, decreased net sales and diversion of management's time and energy, any or all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. acquisitions one of our strategies is inorganic growth through the acquisition of products and companies that we expect will benefit the company. this strategy comes with a number of financial, managerial, and operational risks. we may not realize the benefits of an acquisition because of integration and other challenges, including, but not limited to the following: difficulty involved with managing the expanded operations of the respective parties, as well as identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities; uncertainties involved in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of the respective parties, as well as identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities of acquisition targets; unanticipated changes in the business, industry, market or general economic conditions different from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction; difficulties due to a lack of, or limited experience in, any new product or geographic markets we enter; inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies, or return on investment, from an acquisition in the amounts or on the time frame anticipated; substantial demands on our management, operational resources, technology, and financial and internal control systems, which could lead to dissatisfaction and potential loss of key customers, management, or 37 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors employees; integration activities that may detract attention from our day-to-day business, and substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts; and difficulties, restrictions or increased costs associated with raising future capital in connection with an acquisition may impact our liquidity, credit ratings and financial position, thereby making it more difficult, restrictive or expensive to raise future capital. in addition, the issuance of equity to pay a portion of the purchase price for an acquisition would dilute our existing shareholders. as described in item 1. business - major recent developments , in march 2015 we closed on the omega acquisition. in addition to the risks mentioned above, omega presents the following risks: our success in the european markets in which omega operates will depend on a number of factors, such as: our ability to commercialize new products; our ability to adapt to changes in economic and political conditions; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; compliance with differing regulatory and legal requirements, including tax laws, trade laws, labor, safety, local content, consumer protection regulation, and import or export licensing requirements; and consistency and transparency of foreign tax systems, transfer pricing stability across jurisdictions, and our ability to reinvest earnings and cash as appropriate. while omega has not historically been subject to u.s. laws and regulations, such as the fcpa, it has been subject to a wide range of european laws and regulations, including the u.k. bribery act of 2010. the comparable u.s. laws and regulations to which omega is now subject may differ from those to which omega was historically subject. therefore, it is possible that certain omega sales or other activities that were permitted while omega was an independent company may no longer be permitted. while we are continuing to put into place compliance processes and controls intended to ensure compliance with u.s. and global laws that now apply to omega, if omega's operations fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. divestitures we may evaluate potential divestiture opportunities with respect to portions of our business (including specific assets or categories of assets) from time to time, and may proceed with a divestiture opportunity if and when we believe it is consistent with our business strategy and initiatives. any future divestitures could expose us to significant risk, including without limitation: our ability to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and personnel to any purchaser; fees for legal and transaction-related services; diversion of management resources; and loss of key personnel and reduction in revenue. if we do not realize the expected strategic, economic or other benefits of any divestiture transaction, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 38 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we have acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject us to losses and may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we have recorded significant intangible assets and goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of previous acquisitions, which could become impaired and lead to material charges in the future. as of the year ended december 31, 2016, we recorded the following impairments: goodwill impairment charges of $1.1 billion related to our specialty sciences, bch-rest of world ("row"), bch-belgium, and animal health reporting units. indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $1.5 billion related to: trademarks, trade names and brands; developed product technology/formulation and product rights; distribution and license agreements; and supply agreements. we perform an impairment analysis on intangible assets subject to amortization when there is an indication that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicates a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. as of december 31, 2016 , the net book value of our intangible assets and goodwill were $3.5 billion and $4.0 billion , respectively. see item 8. note 3 for more information on the above impairment charges. there can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives will achieve their intended effects. we are in the process of implementing certain initiatives designed to increase operational efficiency and improve our return on invested capital by globalizing our supply chain through global shared service arrangements, streamlining our organizational structure, making key executive employee changes, performing a strategic portfolio review, and disposing of certain assets. we believe these initiatives will enhance our net sales, operating margins, and earnings; however, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will produce the anticipated benefits. any delay or failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our projected results. on november 10, 2016, as part of our ongoing strategic portfolio review, we announced the following strategic actions: (1) exploring strategic alternatives for the potential sale our tysabri royalty asset, which is reported in our specialty sciences segment; (2) conducting a comprehensive internal evaluation of our businesses, including the rx market position, growth opportunities and interdependencies with our other manufacturing and shared service operations to determine if strategic alternatives should be explored; and (3) conducting a review of segment and corporate cost structures to align with existing and future expected market dynamics. if we determine that we will pursue a strategic divestiture as a result of this portfolio review, our future business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity and operating results could be significantly different than those in historical periods or projected by our management, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on the market value of our ordinary shares or credit ratings. we cannot provide any commitment regarding if or when any such divestiture would occur. in furtherance of these strategic actions, on march 27, 2017 , we completed the divestment of our tysabri royalty stream to royalty pharma for up to $2.85 billion , which consists of $2.2 billion in cash and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in royalties earned if global net sales of tysabri meet specific thresholds in 2018 and 2020, respectively. there can be no assurance these thresholds can be achieved. in addition, on february 21, 2017, we approved a workforce reduction plan as part of a larger cost optimization strategy across the company. we expect to reduce our global workforce by approximately 750 employees which includes some actions already taken and 235 employees who have elected to participate in a voluntary early retirement program. this represents a reduction of approximately 14% of our global non-production workforce. the changes to our workforce will vary by country, based on legal requirements and required consultations with works councils and other employee representatives, as appropriate. we have announced that we expect to yield approximately $130.0 million in savings from these actions. there can be no assurance these benefits will be recognized. further, these actions could lead to a disruption in production or loss in net sales. 39 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors in connection with this plan, we estimate that we will recognize total pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $70.0 million to $80.0 million, consisting of one-time termination benefits, severance arrangements, and other termination costs. we anticipate recognizing substantially all of these charges by the year ended 2017, with the remaining balance to be recognized during the first quarter of the year ended 2018. the filing of this annual report on form 10-k will not make us current in our exchange act filing obligations, which means we retain certain potential liability and are not eligible to use certain forms or rely on certain sec rules. although this is a comprehensive form 10-k for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2016, june 27, 2015 and june 28, 2014, the transition period from june 28, 2015 to december 31, 2015, and the quarterly periods included within the fiscal years ended december 31, 2016 and june 27, 2015 and the transition period from june 28, 2015 to december 31, 2015, filing this report does not make us current in our filing obligations under the exchange act. our failure to file all required exchange act reports, on a timely basis, means we remain potentially liable under the exchange act for those delinquencies, and the filing of this report does not preclude the enforcement staff of the sec from taking action as a result of those filing delinquencies. further, without the missing filings, investors may not be able to review certain financial and other disclosures that would be contained in those filings. in addition, we have not filed our form 10-q for the quarterly period ended april 1, 2017. we also were unable to include the required pro forma financial information in our form 8-k filed on march 29, 2017 reporting the sale of our tysabri royalty stream. as a result, we will not be current for purposes of rule 144, regulation s, and our form s-8 registrations statements until we file that form 10-q and amend the form 8-k to include the proforma financial information. we have incurred significant additional costs to complete the restatements of previously issued financials and to remediate our material weaknesses and failure to timely file our periodic reports, which may result in reduced operating results in future periods. as part of this annual report on form 10-k, we have restated previously filed financial statements, and we are in the process of remediating our previously existing material weaknesses and evaluating if further remedial action is appropriate. these efforts and actions related to the restatements of our financial statements have been time consuming and expensive and could expose us to a number of additional risks, which could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. in particular, we have incurred and will likely continue to incur significant expense, including significant audit, legal, consulting, and other professional fees in connection with the restatements of our previously issued financial statements and the ongoing remediation of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. we have taken a number of steps, including adding significant internal resources and implementing a number of additional procedures, in order to strengthen our accounting and tax functions and attempt to reduce the risk of additional misstatements in our financial statements. to the extent these steps are not successful, we could be forced to incur additional time and expense. we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting; failure to remediate the material weakness could negatively impact our business and the price of our ordinary shares. in connection with our review of certain material misstatements related to the characterization of the tysabri royalty stream acquired in the elan transaction, as well as material misstatements related to the calculation of deferred tax liabilities that existed at the time of the acquisition of omega, and the evaluation of long-lived assets in our animal health reporting unit for impairment testing, in each case contained in certain of our historical financial statements, we have concluded that there were material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that contributed to those misstatements. as a result of the material weaknesses, which existed at december 31, 2016, we have concluded that we did not maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission ( coso ). the failure to maintain effective control over financial reporting in turn resulted in material deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures. 40 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we have identified and begun the implementation of actions, and continue to identify and implement, actions to improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, but there can be no assurance that such remediation efforts will be successful. we have also incurred and will continue to incur substantial accounting, legal, consulting, and other costs in connection with identifying and remediating the material weaknesses. failure to remediate the material weaknesses could have a negative impact on our business and the market for our ordinary shares. for more information on our material weaknesses and the status of our remediation efforts. see item 9a - controls and procedures , which includes management's report on internal control over financial reporting . global risks our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. we manufacture, source raw materials, and sell our products in a number of countries. the percentage of our business outside the u.s. has been increasing particularly as a result of the omega acquisition. we are subject to risks associated with international manufacturing and sales, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; problems related to markets with different cultural biases or political systems; possible difficulties in enforcing agreements; longer payment cycles and shipping lead-times; difficulties obtaining export or import licenses; changes to u.s. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the u.s., including but not limited to, goods imported from mexico; and imposition of withholding or other taxes. additionally, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering import/export regulations. to the extent that we are unable to successfully defend against an audit or review, we may be required to pay assessments, penalties, and increased duties. certain of our facilities operate in a special purpose sub-zone established by the u.s. department of commerce foreign trade zone board, which allows us certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. if the foreign trade zone board were to revoke the sub-zone designation or limit our use, we could be subject to increased duties. although we believe that we conduct our business in compliance with applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and economic sanctions or other anti-corruption laws, if we are found to not be in compliance with such laws or other anti-corruption laws, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. this risk increases in locations outside of the u.s., particularly in locations that have not previously had to comply with the fcpa, u.k. bribery act, and similar laws. current and changing global economic conditions may adversely affect our business. a number of non-u.s. jurisdictions in which we do business have been negatively impacted by slowing growth rates or recessionary conditions, political disruptions, exchange rate and market volatility. several emerging market economies are particularly vulnerable to the impact of rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, weaker oil and other commodity prices, and large external deficits. while some of these jurisdictions are showing signs of stabilization or recovery, others, such as ukraine, russia and greece, continue to experience levels of stress and volatility. risks in one country can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in another country or countries. as a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our operations. while the challenging global economic environment has not had a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global 41 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources, impact our ability to obtain financing, or decrease the value of our assets. the challenging economic conditions have also impacted the movements in exchange rates, which have experienced significant recent volatility, including the unfavorable foreign currency impact on the british pound due to brexit. uncertainty regarding the future growth rates between countries, the influence of central bank actions, and the changing political environment globally may contribute to continued high levels of exchange rate volatility, which could have an adverse impact on our results. our customers could be adversely impacted if economic conditions worsen. our chca segment does not advertise its products like national brand companies and thus is largely dependent on retailer promotional activities to drive sales volume and increase market share. if our customers do not have the ability to invest in store brand promotional activities, our sales may suffer. additionally, while we actively review the credit worthiness of our customers and suppliers, we cannot fully predict to what extent they may be negatively impacted by slowing economic growth. the international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates. we report our financial results in u.s. dollars. however, a significant portion of our net sales, assets, indebtedness and other liabilities, and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. these currencies include among others the euro, indian rupee, british pound, canadian dollar, israeli shekel, australian dollar, and mexican peso. the addition of omega, a euro-denominated business, that represents a significant portion of our net sales and earnings, and a substantial portion of our net assets, has significantly increased our exposure to changes in the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate. in addition, approximately 29% of omega's sales are in other foreign currencies, with the majority of the product costs for these markets denominated in euros. movements in exchange rates have experienced significant recent volatility due in part to the challenging economic conditions noted above. in 2016, the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and british pound and the euro and british pound in particular experienced significant volatility due to brexit and adversely impacted our results of operations. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been, and may in the future, be adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. in addition, we may also be exposed to credit risks in some of those markets. we may implement currency hedges or take other actions intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are not successful in mitigating the effects of changes in exchange rates on our business, any such changes could materially impact our results. we operate in jurisdictions that could be affected by economic and political instability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations could be affected by economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities, unstable governments and legal systems, and inter-governmental disputes. we have significant operations in israel, which has experienced varying degrees of hostility in recent years. doing business in israel and certain other regions including mexico and eastern europe involves the following risks: certain countries and international organizations have refused to do business with companies with israeli operations. we are also precluded from marketing our products to certain countries due to u.s. and israeli regulatory restrictions. international economic sanctions and boycotts of our products could negatively impact our sales and ability to export our products. our facilities in israel are within a conflict zone. if terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to our facilities, our business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, we would need to obtain prior regulatory agency approval for a change in manufacturing site. in addition, our insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. 42 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors the u.s. department of state and other governments have at times issued advisories regarding travel to certain countries in which we do business. as a result, regulatory agencies have at various times curtailed or prohibited their inspectors from traveling to inspect facilities. if these inspectors are unable to inspect our facilities, the regulatory agencies could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities. our international operations may be subject to interruption due to travel restrictions, war, terrorist acts, and other armed conflicts. for example, belgium, france, turkey, and eastern europe may be exposed to further acts of terrorism, which could give rise to travel and increased security restrictions. also, further threats of armed hostilities in mexico could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the cancellation of contracts or the loss of assets. these events could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations. the uk held a referendum on june 23, 2016 on its membership in the eu. a majority of uk voters voted to exit the eu ( brexit ), and negotiations will commence to determine the future terms of the uk's relationship with the eu, subject to a negotiation period that could last up to two years after the uk government formally initiates the withdraw process, including the terms of trade between the uk and the eu. brexit has created significant instability and volatility in the global financial markets, has led to significant weakening of the british pound compared to the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and could adversely affect european or worldwide economic or market conditions. although it is unknown what those terms will be, they may impair the ability of our operations in the eu to transact business in the future in the uk, and similarly the ability of our uk operations to transact business in the future in the eu. specifically, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and eu countries and increased regulatory complexities. these changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. further, among other things, brexit could reduce consumer spending in the uk and the eu, which could result in decreased demand for our products. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. risks related to litigation and insurance we are or may become involved in lawsuits and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings. we may become involved in lawsuits arising from a wide variety of commercial, manufacturing, development, marketing, sales and other business-related matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, pricing, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising, unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product quality/recall, environmental remediation, securities law, disclosure, and regulatory issues. litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. we intend to vigorously defend against any lawsuits, however, we cannot predict how the cases will be resolved. adverse results in the cases could result in substantial monetary judgments. no assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the future. see item 8. note 16 for more information. we may be subject to liability if our products violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where our products are distributed. the successful assertion of product liability or other product-related claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, and we could incur substantial legal expenses. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation may suffer. we are a defendant in product liability lawsuits arising out of serious adverse events, including deaths, which occurred in patients taking tysabri . we expect additional product liability lawsuits related to tysabri usage to be filed. tysabri 's distributor, biogen, and perrigo will each be responsible for 50% of losses and expenses arising out of any tysabri product liability claims. along with biogen, we intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits, however, we cannot predict how these cases will be resolved. adverse results in one or more of these cases could result in substantial monetary judgments not covered by insurance. 43 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we may face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. while we do not have any material remediation liabilities currently outstanding, we may in the future face liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under or in our currently or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility that we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. the actual or alleged presence of these substances, or the failure to remediate them, could have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on our ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. there can be no assurance that environmental liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on us. see item 1. business - information applicable to all reportable segments - environmental for more information. our chci segment regularly makes advertising claims regarding the effectiveness of its products, which we are responsible for defending. an unsuccessful defense of product-related claims could result in potentially significant monetary damages and substantial legal expenses. even if a claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation could suffer. we are a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit filed in the us district court for the district of new jersey in which the complaint alleges violations of securities exchange act sections 10(b) (and rule 10b 5) and 14(e) against both perrigo and our former chief executive officer, joseph c. papa, and 20(a) control person liability against mr. papa. in general, the allegations concern the actions taken by the company and the former executive to defend against the hostile takeover bid by mylan in the period april 21, 2015 through november 13, 2015. the plaintiff also alleges that we provided inadequate disclosure concerning alleged integration problems as a result of the omega acquisition in the period april 21, 2015 through may 11, 2016. another securities class action case was also filed in the same court making essentially the same claims on behalf of a class of persons who sold put options in perrigo shares during the same class period. in december 2016, the court consolidated the two actions. in february 2017, the court selected the lead plaintiffs and the lead counsel to the putative class. in march 2017, the court entered a scheduling order that sets a deadline for the lead plaintiffs to file an amended complaint. that deadline has not yet passed. we along with certain of our current and former executive officers and board members are also defendants in a securities class action suit where the plaintiff alleges violations of israeli law in the district court of tel aviv-jaffa . on june 15, 2016, we filed a motion to stay the case pending the outcome of the u.s. securities class actions. the plaintiffs did not oppose the motion. the israeli court granted the motion on the same day, and the action is stayed. we are a defendant in a securities claims which the complaint commenced an action in the district court of tel aviv-jaffa asserting securities claims against perrigo and our auditor ernst &amp; young llp ("ey"). the case is styled keinan v. perrigo company plc, et al. the action seeks certification of a class of purchasers of perrigo shares on the israeli exchange beginning february 6, 2014. the proposed closing date for the class is not clear. in general, the plaintiff asserts that perrigo improperly accounted for its stream of royalty income from two drugs: tysabri and prialt. the court filings contend that the alleged improper accounting caused the audited financial results for perrigo to be incorrect for the year ended december 31, 2016, six months ended december 31, 2015, and the years ended june 27, 2015 and june 28, 2014 and the other financial data released by the company over those years to also be inaccurate. the plaintiff maintains that the defendants are liable under israeli securities law or, in the alternative, under u.s. securities law principles. the plaintiff indicates an initial, preliminary class damages estimate of 686.0 million nis (approximately $187.0 million ). the response from perrigo and ey is not yet due. perrigo is consulting israeli counsel about its response to these allegations. increased scrutiny on pricing practices and competition in the pharmaceutical industry, including antitrust enforcement activity by government agencies and class action litigation, may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 44 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors there has been increased scrutiny regarding sales, marketing, and pricing practices in the pharmaceutical industry from both government agencies and the media, including allegations of price gouging and/or collusion. this includes recent u.s. congressional inquiries and hearings in connection with the investigation of specific price increases by several pharmaceutical companies, proposed legislation seeking greater transparency in drug pricing, and criminal investigations regarding drug pricing. u.s. federal and state prosecutors have issued subpoenas to a number of pharmaceutical companies seeking information about their drug pricing practices, and several class action lawsuits have been filed that allege price-fixing with respect to various pharmaceutical products. in december 2016, the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice (the antitrust division ) filed criminal charges against two former executives from a competitor of the company for their roles in conspiracies to fix prices, rig bids and allocate customers for certain generic drugs. on may 2, 2017, we disclosed that search warrants were executed at a number of perrigo facilities and other locations in connection with the antitrust division's ongoing investigation related to drug pricing in the pharmaceutical industry. although no charges have been brought to date against perrigo or any of our current employees (or, to the best of our knowledge, former employees), we take the investigation very seriously. if criminal antitrust charges are filed involving perrigo, we would incur substantial litigation and other costs, and could face substantial monetary penalties, injunctive relief, negative publicity and damage to our reputation. regardless of the ultimate outcome, responding to those charges would divert management's time and attention and could impair our operations . further, we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory changes may result from the ongoing public scrutiny of our industry, what the nature of any such changes might be, or what impact they may have on perrigo. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and reputation. we are cooperating fully with the government's investigation and are committed to operating its business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and the highest standards of ethical conduct. we do not condone, and will not countenance, any violation of these standards by our employees, agents, and business partners. publishing earnings guidance subjects us to risks, including increased stock volatility that could lead to potential lawsuits by investors. because we publish earnings guidance, we are subject to a number of risks. actual results may vary from the guidance we provide investors from time to time, such that our stock price may decline following, among other things, any earnings release or guidance that does not meet market expectations. it has become increasingly commonplace for investors to file lawsuits against companies following a rapid decrease in market capitalization. we have been in the past, and may be in the future, named in these types of lawsuits. these types of lawsuits can be costly and divert management attention and other resources away from our business, regardless of their merits, and could result in adverse settlements or judgments. third-party patents and other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to bring new products to market and may subject us to potential legal liability, causing us to incur significant costs. the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. as a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products, the ability of our chca and rx segments to bring new products to market is often limited by third-party patents or proprietary rights and regulatory exclusivity periods awarded on products. launching new products prior to resolution of intellectual property issues may result in us incurring legal liability if the related litigation is later resolved against us. the cost and time for us to develop prescription and rx-to-otc switch products is significantly greater than the rest of the new products that we introduce. any failure to bring new products to market in a timely manner could cause us to lose market share, and our operating results could suffer. we could have to defend against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. this could require us to incur substantial expense and could divert significant effort of our technical and 45 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors management personnel. if we are found to have infringed on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or manufacture some products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. additionally, if we choose to settle a dispute through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products. at times, our chca or rx segments may seek approval to market drug products before the expiration of patents for those products, based upon our belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by our products. in these cases we may face significant patent litigation. depending upon a complex analysis of a variety of legal and commercial factors, we may, in certain circumstances, elect to market a generic pharmaceutical product while litigation is pending, before any court decision, or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending, known as an "at risk" launch. the risk involved in an "at risk" launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to the patent holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic version of the product. by electing to proceed in this manner, we could face substantial damages if we receive an adverse final court decision. in the case where a patent holder is able to prove that our infringement was "willful" or "exceptional," under applicable law, the patent holder may be awarded up to three times the amount of its actual damages or we may be required to pay attorneys' fees. the success of certain of our products depends on the effectiveness of measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights and patents. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. we have been issued patents covering certain of our products, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries. any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by us may not provide us with any significant competitive advantages for our products or may even be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using, or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees, and consultants. if these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of the insurance we maintain could adversely impact our financial condition. to protect the company against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs, including property, general and product, and directors' and officers' liability. we may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. we are self-insured when insurance is not available or not available at reasonable premiums. risks associated with insurance plans include: insurance costs could increase significantly, or the availability of insurance may decrease, either of which could adversely impact our financial condition; deductible or retention amounts could increase or our coverage could be reduced in the future and to the extent losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we maintained; 46 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors product liability insurance may not be available to us at an economically reasonable cost (or at all for certain specific products) or our insurance may not adequately cover our liability in connection with product liability claims (see item 8. note 16 for further information related to legal proceedings); and as our business inherently exposes us to claims for injuries allegedly resulting from the use of our products, we may become subject to claims for which we are not adequately insured. unanticipated payment of a large claim may have a material adverse effect on our business. tax related risks the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs") may not agree with the conclusion that we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. although we are incorporated in ireland, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("code"). for u.s. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. for perrigo company plc to be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the code, either (i) the former stockholders of perrigo company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our stock by reason of holding shares in perrigo company (the "ownership test") as of the closing of the elan acquisition or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in ireland after the elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). upon our acquisition of elan, perrigo company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of our shares. as a result, we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, we cannot assure that the irs will agree with our position that the ownership test is satisfied. there is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test. based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that section 7874 of the code likely will limit our and our u.s. affiliates' ability to use their u.s. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset certain u.s. taxable income, if any, generated by the elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the elan acquisition. changes to tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, any of the following could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes: changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the code, the irs treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other irs guidance; and legislative proposals aimed at expanding the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence. 47 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors on april 4, 2016, the united states treasury ("treasury") and the irs issued a package of temporary regulations that incorporate the guidance promised in the 2014 and 2015 notices and provide other rules. these temporary regulations are generally effective for certain inversion transactions completed on or after november 19, 2015 or, in certain cases, to certain specified post-inversion transactions occurring after that date provided that an inversion transaction had occurred on or after september 22, 2014. we do not believe that those regulations would apply to our transaction, which occurred prior to those effective dates. treasury and the irs also issued final regulations on june 3, 2015, which address the substantial business activities test of section 7874 of the code. we believe that those regulations, which have an effective date of june 4, 2015, also do not impact the treatment of our status as a foreign corporation under section 7874, as our transaction also occurred prior to the effective date of those final regulations. on october 16, 2016, treasury released final regulations regarding corporate tax inversions and related earnings stripping. these final regulations include provisions that may be interpreted to impact otherwise common tax structures including intercompany financing and obligations. although we continue to evaluate the impacts of the new regulations to our cross-border treasury management practices and intercompany financing structures, we have no assurance that these regulations will not impact our ability to utilize existing or similar structures in the future. the organization for economic co-operation and development, which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles relating to base erosion and profit shifting ("beps"). these changes are being adopted and implemented by many of the countries in which we do business and may increase our taxes in these countries. in addition, the european commission has launched several initiatives to implement beps actions including an anti-tax avoidance directive and having a common (consolidated) corporate tax base. it is unclear at present if all or any of these initiatives will be implemented by the eu countries. comprehensive u.s. tax reform has been stated to be a priority by the new u.s. administration and the u.s. congress. changes in u.s. tax laws or their interpretation, if adopted, could significantly increase our consolidated effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial results particularly if the proposed border tax denying corporate tax relief on imports is introduced. any of these changes could have a prospective or retroactive application to us, our shareholders, and affiliates, and could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. our effective tax rate may change in the future, which could adversely impact our future results from operations. a number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, which may impact our future results from operations. these factors include, but are not limited to: income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to our interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (such as proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform); changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; divestitures of current operations; and 48 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors repatriation of non-u.s. earnings with respect to which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. the resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. in addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments. in the united states, the internal revenue service ("irs") audit of our fiscal years ended june 27, 2009 and june 26, 2010 had previously concluded with the issuance of a statutory notice of deficiency on august 27, 2014. while we had previously agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $8.0 million (inclusive of interest) in november 2014, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional adjustments, including transfer pricing adjustments. the statutory notice of deficiency's adjustments for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $68.9 million, inclusive of interest and penalties. we disagree with the irs's positions asserted in the statutory notice of deficiency. to contest the irs's adjustments, in january 2015 we paid the incremental tax obligation (a prerequisite to contesting the proposed adjustments in u.s. district court), and in june 2015, we filed an administrative request for a refund with the irs. the irs subsequently denied our request for a refund. we anticipate filing a complaint in u.s. district court claiming a refund of the paid amounts prior to august 2017. an unfavorable resolution of this matter could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. the irs issued a statutory notice of deficiency on april 20, 2017 for the irs audits of our fiscal years ended june 25, 2011 and june 30, 2012. while we agreed to certain adjustments in october 2016 and made minimal associated payments, the statutory notice of deficiency asserted various additional adjustments, including transfer pricing adjustments. the statutory notice of deficiency for fiscal years 2011 and 2012 asserted an incremental tax obligation of approximately $74.2 million , inclusive of interest and penalties. we disagree with the irs's positions asserted in this notice. in anticipation of contesting the irs's adjustments, in may 2017 we paid the incremental tax obligation (a prerequisite to contesting the proposed adjustments in u.s. district court) and expect to file an administrative request for refund. we received notices of proposed adjustments on december 22, 2016 for the irs audit of athena neurosciences, inc., a subsidiary of elan corporation plc, which perrigo acquired in december 2013, for the years ending december 31, 2011 and december 31, 2012. we disagree with the irs's positions asserted in the notices of proposed adjustments and intend to contest them. additionally, examination of transfer pricing positions is ongoing. there are numerous other income tax jurisdictions for which tax returns are not yet settled, none of which are individually significant. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. unfavorable resolutions of the audit matters discussed above could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. risks related to capital and liquidity our historical failure to timely file our periodic reports with the sec may limit our options in accessing the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, which in turn may limit our ability to pursue future transactions or strategies. we did not timely file our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2016 or our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended april 1, 2017. any failure by us to timely file one or more of our periodic reports or otherwise remain current in our sec reporting requirements may inhibit our ability to access the public markets to raise capital. for example, we are not eligible to use form s-3 until we are current in our sec 49 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors reporting requirements and we establish the required history of making timely filings for 12 full calendar months. the ability to use form s-3 to register public offerings in the united states offers certain benefits, such as relatively lower costs and shorter timeframes to prepare a registration statement and cause it to become effective, which may enhance our ability to take advantage of positive market conditions as they develop. the limited availability of access to the public markets could increase the time and costs related to raising capital or prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing future business strategies. as described in our current report on form 8-k filed on march 16, 2017, we entered into amendments the 2014 revolver and the 2014 term loan providing for additional time to deliver certain financial statements, as well as the modification of certain financial and other covenants. also, as described in our current report on form 8-k filed on april 25, 2017, we entered into additional amendments to the 2014 revolver and the 2014 term loan to modify provisions of such agreements necessary as a result of the correction in accounting related to the tysabri royalty stream, as well as waivers of any default or event of default that may arise from any restatement of or deficiencies in our financial statements for the periods specified in such amendments and waivers. no default or event of default existed prior to entering into these amendments and waivers under the 2013 notes, 2014 notes, or 2016 notes. we are in compliance with all covenants under those notes as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. as a result of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k, as of the filing date, we are in compliance with all covenants, including the financial statement delivery obligations, under the 2013 indenture and 2014 indenture. however, if we do not file the quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarterly period ended april 1, 2017 within 15 calendar days after the due date of such report, we would not be in compliance with the financial statement delivery obligations under such indentures. see item 8. note 10 for more information on all of the above debt facilities and transactions. our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategic initiatives. we anticipate that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and borrowings available under our credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. our business requires continuous capital investments, and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. additionally, our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect the business. at december 31, 2016 , our total indebtedness outstanding was $5.8 billion . our senior credit facilities, the agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. we also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. if we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities, agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. while we have announced our intention, consistent with our investment grade philosophy, to pay down a portion of our outstanding indebtedness during 2017 using the proceeds from our sale of the tysabri royalty stream and residual free cash flow, we cannot provide assurance that our debt pay down strategy will occur on the proposed time line, or at all, or that we will maintain our investment grade rating. further, if our debt pay down strategy is delayed, we may be required to obtain further amendments or waivers of our financial covenants under our 2014 revolver and 2014 term loan. any default under our senior credit facilities or agreements governing our senior notes or other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. if our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay or refinance our debt or obtain sufficient new financing. 50 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors downgrades to our credit ratings may limit our access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs on current or future financing, including via trade payables with vendors. customers' inclination to purchase goods from us may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of our credit ratings. there are various maturity dates associated with our credit facilities, senior notes, and other debt facilities. there is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. further, there is no assurance that future refinancing or renegotiation of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt facilities, or additional agreements will not have materially different or more stringent terms. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . we cannot guarantee that we will buy back our ordinary shares pursuant to our announced share repurchase plan or that our share repurchase plan will enhance long-term shareholder value. on october 22, 2015, our board of directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase plan. during the three months ended december 31, 2015, we repurchased shares through the plan totaling $500.0 million . during 2016, we did not purchase any shares in the open market. the remaining $1.5 billion in authorized repurchases may extend through the year ended december 31, 2018. the specific timing and amount of buybacks, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our ordinary shares, and the nature of other investment opportunities. buybacks of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase plan could affect the market price of our ordinary shares or increase their volatility. additionally, our share repurchase plan could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. although our share repurchase plan is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so, and short-term share price fluctuations could reduce the plan's effectiveness. any additional shares we may issue could dilute your ownership in the company. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders, and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by the articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights by way of special resolution with respect to any particular allotment of shares. our articles of association contain, as permitted by irish company law, a provision authorizing the board to issue new shares for cash without offering preemption rights. the authorization of the directors to issue shares and the authorization of the waiver of the statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. we are incorporated in ireland; irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014 (the "act"). the act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification of directors. under irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. as a result, shareholders of irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. 51 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax, and capital acquisitions tax. there is no treaty between ireland and the u.s. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in ireland, the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and be for a final and conclusive sum. an irish court may exercise its right to refuse to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if it violated irish public policy, if it is in breach of natural justice, or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. an irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. judgments of u.s. courts of liabilities predicated upon u.s. federal securities laws may not be enforced by irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in ireland. we are subject to irish takeover rules under which our board of directors is not permitted to take any action without irish takeover panel approval that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once we have received an approach that may lead to an offer, or have reason to believe an offer is imminent. further, it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction than if we were a u.s. company because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under irish law. we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends in the future. a number of factors may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future, including: the availability of distributable reserves, as approved by our shareholders and the irish high court; our ability to receive cash dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries; compliance with applicable laws and debt covenants; and our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 101 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risk we are a global company with operations throughout north america, europe, australia, mexico, and israel. we transact business in each location's local currency and in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposures to changes in exchange rates. our largest exposure is the movement of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro, which has increased due to the omega acquisition. in addition, our u.s. operations continue to expand their export business, primarily in canada, china, and europe, and are subject to fluctuations in the respective exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. a large portion of the sales of our israeli operations is in foreign currencies, primarily u.s. dollars and euros, while these operations largely incur costs in their local currency. further, a portion of biogen's global sales of tysabri are denominated in local currencies creating exposures to changes in exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar and thereby impacting the amount of u.s. dollar royalties we receive. due to different sales and cost structures, certain segments experience a negative impact and certain segments a positive impact as a result of changes in exchange rates. we estimate the translation effect of a ten percent devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to the other foreign currencies in which we transact business would have increased operating income of our non-u.s. operating units by approximately $29.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2016 . this sensitivity analysis has inherent limitations. the analysis disregards the possibility that rates of multiple foreign currencies will not always move in the same direction relative to the value of the u.s. dollar over time and does not account for foreign exchange derivatives that we utilize to mitigate fluctuations in exchange rates. in addition, we enter into certain purchase commitments for materials that, although denominated in u.s. dollars, are linked to foreign currency valuations. these commitments generally contain a range for which the price of materials may fluctuate over time given the value of a foreign currency. the translation of the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated operations is made using local currency exchange rates as of the end of the year. translation adjustments are not included in determining net income but are disclosed in accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci") within shareholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheets until a sale or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the subsidiary takes place. in certain markets, we could recognize a significant gain or loss related to unrealized cumulative translation adjustments if we were to exit the market and liquidate our net investment. as of december 31, 2016 , cumulative net currency translation adjustments decreased shareholders' equity by $67.9 million . we monitor and strive to manage risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. exposures that cannot be naturally offset within a local entity to an immaterial amount are often hedged with foreign exchange derivatives or netted with offsetting exposures at other entities. seerisk factors 24 risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition). 7 perrigo company plc - item 1 chca consumer healthcare international overview the chci segment is comprised of our branded otc sales primarily in europe and our consumer focused businesses in the u.k., australia, and israel. the chci segment develops, manufactures, markets and distributes many well-known european otc brands in the cough, cold and allergy, lifestyle, personal care and derma-therapeutics, natural health and vitamins, and anti-parasite categories. in addition, the segment leverages its broad regulatory, sales, and distribution infrastructure to in-license and sell third-party brands and generic pharmaceutical products. the chci segment distributes these products through an extensive network of customers including pharmacies, wholesalers, drug and grocery store retailers, and para-pharmacies in 28 countries, primarily in europe. many chci products have market leading positions in the markets in which they compete. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , the chci segment represented approximately 30% of consolidated net sales. through continued investment in r&amp;d partnerships and new technologies, the chci segment strives to offer high quality products that meet consumers' needs. the combination of internal r&amp;d, in-sourcing, acquisitions, and partnerships support the product pipeline, both in terms of brand expansion and product improvement. in the u.k., r&amp;d focuses on oral liquid formulations for the branded rx products for which liquid formulations are not available, as well as the development of store brand products and products for the branded business. an additional r&amp;d center resides in sweden. in the rest of europe, most r&amp;d is performed by external partners with oversight by our teams. the segment has six plants dedicated to manufacturing certain of its products. the chci segment primarily focuses on building local and regional brands. in many markets outside of the u.s., a brand marketing strategy can be more effective than a store brand strategy due to the absence of mass merchandisers and large scale pharmacy chains. additionally, the absence of a centralized regulatory environment within europe adds to the complexity of obtaining approvals for products in these markets. while the chci segment sells products from over 300 brands both on its own and through third parties, it focuses its resources on its "focus brands", which are selected on the basis of their current sales and growth potential in the otc market. additional resources are allocated to these brands to build strong positions in the largest, most highly profitable categories in the otc market, while maintaining leadership in smaller branded categories. recent developments management has developed a strategy to: (1) implement a brand prioritization to address certain market dynamics, with an objective to balance the cost of advertising and promotional investments with expected contributions from category sales, (2) restructure the sales force in certain markets to more effectively serve customers, and (3) in-source certain product manufacturing and development. the combination of these actions is expected to improve the segment's focus on higher value otc products, reduce selling costs and improve operating margins in the segment. as part of our previously announced strategic initiatives, management implemented improvements and evaluated the overall cost structures within our chci segment in the following ways: on december 8, 2016, we announced the cancellation of the unprofitable eurogenerics nv distribution agreement in belgium. the year-over-year effect of the cancellation, combined with the exit of certain otc distribution agreements, reduced our net sales by $200.3 million in 2017, with an immaterial impact to operating income. we made progress on our previously announced restructuring plans to right-size the omega business due to the impact of market dynamics on sales volumes. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , we recognized $17.1 million of restructuring expense in the chci segment (refer to item 8. note 18 ). 8 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci management continues to evaluate the most effective business model for each country, aligning our sales infrastructure and actively integrating sales strategies with promotional programs. on august 25, 2017 , we completed the sale of our russian business, which was previously classified as held-for-sale, to alvogen pharma llc. the total sale price was 12.7 million ( $15.1 million ), inclusive of an estimated working capital adjustment, which resulted in an immaterial gain in the segment (refer to item 8. note 2 ). the combination of these actions improved the segment's focus on higher value otc products, reduced selling costs and improved operating margins in the segment. the chci segment has been positively impacted by market dynamics in countries such as the nordics, italy, and portugal, offset by softness in certain brand categories in france and germany, as well as unfavorable foreign currency impacts primarily in the u.k. related to brexit. products below are the categories in which the chci segment competes and some of the top brands in each category. product category description focus brands cough, cold, and allergy products that address respiratory symptoms, including traditional medications and alternative treatments such as aromatherapy solutions. bittner /aflubin bronchenolo /bronchostop coldrex libenar physiomer phytosun /valda solpadeine /antigrippine lifestyle weight management, pregnancy and fertility kits, pain relief, sleep management, smoking cessation, and eye care. niquitin silence /nytol xls (medical) ymea personal care and derma-therapeutics products for the face and body, including sun care, baby-specific, and feminine hygiene products, and solutions for various skin conditions and allergies such as eczema, psoriasis and rosacea. aco biodermal canoderm dermalex lactacyd wartner natural health and vitamin, minerals, and supplements ("vms") vitamins, minerals, supplements, and various other natural remedies. abtei biover davitamon granufink anti-parasite products focused on the elimination of parasites in both humans and pets including lice treatment and insect repellent. jungle formula paranix the chart below reflects net sales by product category in the chci segment for the year ended december 31, 2017 . 9 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci we launched a number of new chci products in the year ended december 31, 2017 , most notably a cold &amp; flu triple active hot drink, various intimate hygiene products, derma-therapeutics, and vms line extensions. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , new product sales in the chci segment were $64.1 million . the chci segment has more than 100 strategic new products in five product categories in development, with each of its focus brands having a five-year innovation master plan. sales and marketing our customers include pharmacies, drug, and grocery stores located primarily in europe, including walgreens boots alliance, asda, tesco, dm, rossmann, etos, and kruidvat. the chci segment sells its products primarily through an established pharmacy sales force to an extensive network of pharmacists. our sales representatives visit pharmacists daily, ensuring strong in-store visibility of our brands and facilitating pharmacist education programs. our sales, marketing, and regulatory teams use training/merchandising teams to work in conjunction with local sales representatives to improve our brands' presence and recognition. we seek to attract key talent from leading otc, fast moving consumer goods ("fmcg"), and retailer companies to build strong local teams throughout the countries in which the chci segment operates. while chci products have a higher average gross margin than products sold by the chca segment, selling expenses are significantly higher due to the sales force mentioned above, as well as targeted advertising and promotional spending to enhance brand equity. key marketing communication tools for the chci segment include tv commercials, consumer leaflets, product websites, digital and targeted promotional campaigns. competition the competitive landscape of the european otc market is highly fragmented, as local companies often hold leadership positions in individual product segments in particular countries. as a result, the relevant competition in each of the chci segment's markets is both local and global. competitors include sarnofi, bayer, reckitt benckiser, gsk, novartis, and johnson &amp; johnson, as well as additional regional competitors. we believe our key advantage lies in our unique combination of best practices in sales, marketing, and product development from 10 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci fmcg and otc/rx, while embracing the pharmacy channel to drive self-care (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition). prescription pharmaceuticals overview the rx segment develops, manufactures, and markets a portfolio of generic prescription drugs primarily in the u.s. we define this portfolio as predominantly "extended" topical as it encompasses a broad array of topical dosage forms such as creams, ointments, lotions, gels, shampoos, foams, suppositories, sprays, liquids, suspensions, solutions, and powders. the portfolio also includes select controlled substances, injectables, hormones, oral solid dosage forms, and oral liquid formulations. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , the rx segment represented approximately 20% of consolidated net sales. our current development areas include other delivery systems such as oral liquids, metered dose inhalers, injectables, and transdermal products, some of which we are developing with third parties. our other areas of expertise include our production capabilities for controlled substances and hormonal products. r&amp;d efforts focus on complex formulations, many of which require costly clinical endpoint trials. we manufacture our topical and oral products in the u.s. and israel, and also source from various fda-approved third parties. rx products are manufactured, labeled, and packaged in facilities that comply with strict regulatory standards and meet customers' stringent requirements. in addition, the rx segment offers otc products through the prescription channel (referred to as "orx ", these products are marketed using the perrigo name). orx products are otc products that are available for pharmacy fulfillment and healthcare reimbursement when prescribed by a physician. we offer numerous orx products that are reimbursable through many health plans and the u.s. medicaid and medicare programs. we actively collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies to develop, manufacture, and market certain products or groups of products. these types of agreements are common in the pharmaceutical industry. we may choose to enter into these types of agreements to, among other things, leverage our or our collaborators' scientific r&amp;d expertise, or utilize our extensive marketing and distribution resources (refer to item 8. note 1 for more information regarding our method for recognizing revenue and expenses related to collaboration agreements, as well as item 8. note 17 for more information regarding our collaboration agreements). recent developments we continue to experience a significant reduction in pricing expectations from historical levels in our rx segment due to competitive pressures. this softness in pricing is attributable to various factors, including increased focus from customers to capture supply chain productivity savings, competition in specific products, and consolidation of certain customers. we expect this softness to continue to impact the segment for the foreseeable future, and we are forecasting a high single digit pricing decline in this segment for the year ending december 31, 2018. we are continuing our previously announced portfolio review process, which includes the ongoing comprehensive internal evaluation of the rx segment's market position, growth opportunities, and interdependencies with our manufacturing and shared service operations to determine if strategic alternatives should be explored related to this segment. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , we sold various andas for a total gain of $23.0 million. 11 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx products listed below are some of the generic prescription products, including authorized generic and orx products, that we manufacture and/or distribute: generic name (1) comparative brand-name drug adapalene cream differin bacitracin ophthalmic ointment n/a benzoyl peroxide 5% - clindamycin 1% gel benzaclin tm budesonide entocort clindamycin foam evoclin clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel duac clobetasol foam, lotion and shampoo olux , olux-e , clobex desonide cream, ointment desonate , tridesilon dihydroergotamine injection d.h.e. 45 halobetasol ointment and cream ultravate hydrocortisone suppositories n/a mupirocin ointment bactroban nystatin topical powder mycostatin olopatadine nasal spray patanase permethrin cream elimite scopolamine patch transdermscop tacrolimus protopic testosterone 1% gel androgel testosterone cypionate injection depo , testosterone testosterone solution axiron triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray nasacort aq triamcinolone cream/ointment triderm /kenalog (1) contains the same active ingredients present in the same dosage form as the comparable brand-name drug we launched a number of new rx products in the year ended december 31, 2017 , most notably scopolamine and testosterone 2% topical (generic equivalent to axiron ). during the year ended december 31, 2017 , new product sales in the rx segment were $75.9 million . during the year ended december 31, 2017 , we, on our own or in collaboration with partners, received final approval from fda health authorities for 12 rx drug applications, and as of december 31, 2017 , we had 21 rx drug applications pending approval. sales and marketing our customers include major wholesalers, including cardinal health, mckesson, and amerisourcebergen; sourcing groups such as red oak and clarusone; national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, including walgreens boots alliance, rite aid, walmart, cvs, kroger, and safeway; hospitals; and pharmacies. orx products are sold to the consumer through the pharmacy counter of predominantly the same retail outlets as our otc pharmaceutical products. competition the market for rx products is subject to intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies launching their own generic version of their branded products (known as an authorized generic), manufacturers of branded drug products that continue to produce those products after patent expirations, and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. among our generic drug manufacturer competitors are par pharmeceuticals, apotex corp., glenmark generics inc., impax laboratories, inc., mylan, prasco, llc, sandoz, sun pharmaceuticals, taro pharmaceuticals, teva pharmaceutical industries ltd., and akorn. 12 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx we believe that one of our primary competitive advantages is our ability to introduce difficult to develop and/or manufacture topical generic versions to brand-name drug products. generally, these products are exposed to less competition due to the relatively longer and more expensive development, clinical trial, and approval processes. in addition, we believe we have a favorable competitive position due primarily to our efficient distribution systems, topical production economies of scale, customer service, and overall reputation (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for more information and risks associated with competition). specialty sciences overview the specialty sciences segment was comprised of assets focused on the treatment of multiple sclerosis, specifically in connection with the drug tysabri (natalizumab). we received contingent payments related to the tysabri financial asset until we disposed of it on march 27, 2017. we were entitled to contingent payments from biogen idec inc. ("biogen") based on its tysabri sales in all indications and geographies. we received contingent payments that were based on royalties of 12% on worldwide biogen sales of tysabri from december 18, 2013 through april 30, 2014. as of may 1, 2014, we received royalties of 18% on annual worldwide biogen sales of tysabri up to $2.0 billion and 25% on annual sales above $2.0 billion . the cash received from biogen for the royalty percentage on tysabri sales was recorded as cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flow. we had recorded the tysabri royalty stream as a financial asset and elected to account for this asset using the fair value option method, which incorporates discounted cash flows related to the expected future cash flows to be received. we used significant judgment in determining our valuation inputs, including estimates as to the probability and timing of future sales of tysabri , as well as estimates of the expected future cash flows. the estimated fair value of the asset was subject to variation should those cash flows vary significantly from our estimates. we had performed evaluations at each reporting period to assess those estimates, discount rates utilized and general market conditions affecting fair value (refer to item 8. note 6 ). the specialty sciences segment also included ongoing obligations under the sale agreement between biogen and elan for 50% of losses and litigation expenses arising out of any tysabri product liability claims, required insurance coverage and related expenses. effective january 1, 2017, due to the sale of the tysabri financial asset, all the above mentioned expenses were moved to unallocated expenses. on march 27, 2017 , we announced the completed divestment of our tysabri financial asset to royalty pharma for up to $2.85 billion , consisting of $2.2 billion in cash and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in milestone payments if the royalties on global net sales of tysabri that are received by royalty pharma meet specific thresholds in 2018 and 2020, respectively. as a result of this transaction, we transferred the entire financial asset to royalty pharma and recorded a $17.1 million gain during the three months ended april 1, 2017. we elected to account for the contingent milestone payments using the fair value option method, and these were recorded at an estimated fair value of $134.5 million as of december 31, 2017 (refer to item 8. note 6 and item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations ). other recent developments we had an other segment that was primarily comprised of sales of api products, which did not meet the quantitative threshold required to be a separate reportable segment. we developed, manufactured, and marketed api products, which were used worldwide by both generic and branded pharmaceutical companies. certain of these ingredients were used in our own pharmaceutical products. the manufacturing of api occurred primarily in israel with some production in india. 13 perrigo company plc - item 1 other on april 6, 2017 , we completed the sale of our india api business to strides shasun limited. we received $22.2 million of proceeds, inclusive of an estimated working capital adjustment, which resulted in an immaterial gain recorded in other expense (income), net on the consolidated statements of operations. prior to closing the sale, we determined that the carrying value of the india api business exceeded its fair value less the cost to sell, resulting in an impairment charge of $35.3 million , which was recorded in impairment charges on the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended december 31, 2016 (refer to item 8. note 2 ). on november 21, 2017 , we completed the sale of our israel api business, which was previously classified as held-for-sale to sk capital, for a sale price of $110.0 million , which resulted in an immaterial gain recorded in other expense (income), net on the consolidated statements of operations (refer to item 8. note 2 and note 6 ). information applicable to all reportable segments research and development r&amp;d is a key component of our business strategy and is performed in various locations in the countries in which we operate. while we conduct a significant amount of our own r&amp;d, we also enter into strategic alliance agreements to obtain the rights to manufacture and/or distribute new products. r&amp;d investments were $167.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 (refer to item 8. note 17 ). during the years ended december 31, 2017 and december 31, 2016 , we wrote off capitalized in-process research and development from previous acquisitions totaling $12.7 million and $3.5 million , respectively, due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for various projects. the year ended december 31, 2017 included r&amp;d expense related to new product development and clinical trial expenses in our chca, chci and rx segments. the year ended december 31, 2016 included r&amp;d expense related to clinical trial expenses primarily in our chca and rx segments. the six months ended december 31, 2015 included incremental r&amp;d expense due to the omega acquisition. the six months ended december 27, 2014 included a $10.0 million payment made in connection with our entry into a collaboration arrangement. the year ended june 27, 2015 also included incremental r&amp;d expense due to the omega acquisition, as well as the payment made in relation to the collaboration arrangement noted above, and an r&amp;d contractual arrangement under which we funded $18.0 million of r&amp;d. we anticipate that r&amp;d expenditures will increase as a percentage of net sales for the foreseeable future as we continue to cultivate our presence in the rx-to-otc switch and generic pharmaceutical markets, and develop our internal r&amp;d capabilities (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with innovation and r&amp;d). trademarks and patents while we own certain trademarks and patents, neither our business as a whole, nor any of our segments, is materially dependent upon our ownership of any one trademark, or patent, or group of trademarks or patents. materials sourcing affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets, and components may be more limited, as they are available from one or only a few suppliers and may require regulatory approval before we can use them. prior to the sale of our israel and india api businesses, we had the ability to manufacture and supply certain api for our otc and rx products, which we now source from the companies that have acquired our api business. we have been purchasing an increasing number of components and select finished goods rather than manufacturing them because of the availability of goods, economic reasons, temporary production limitations, fda restrictions, sale of our api business, and other factors. historically, we have been able to react effectively to situations that require alternate sourcing. should such alternate sourcing be necessary, fda requirements placed on products approved through the anda or nda 14 perrigo company plc - item 1 process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. we believe we have good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of our suppliers and have historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to our volume of purchases (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with materials sourcing). manufacturing and distribution our primary manufacturing facilities are in the u.s. we also have manufacturing facilities in the u.k., belgium, france, germany, austria, israel, mexico, and australia, along with a joint venture in china (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with our manufacturing facilities). we supplement our production capabilities with the purchase of products from outside sources. the capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times for various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of the cough/cold/flu, allergy, or flea and tick seasons, and new product launches. we may utilize available capacity by performing contract manufacturing for other companies. we have logistics facilities in the u.s., israel, mexico, australia, and numerous locations throughout europe. we use contract freight and common carriers to deliver our products. significant customers our primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current global retail drug industry marketplace. walmart is our largest customer and accounted for the following percentage of consolidated net sales: year ended six months ended year ended december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 december 27, 2014 june 27, 2015 13 % 13 % 13 % 19 % 16 % sales to walmart are primarily in the chca segment. as a percentage of our total u.s. otc sales, our sales to walmart generally align with walmart's u.s. retail market share in the products we sell to them. in addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. we believe we generally have good relationships with all of our customers (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with customers). environmental we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. we have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws, but do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations have been or will be material to our business. we do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding. while we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term. corporate social responsibility we are committed to doing business in an ethical manner. we have a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where we are located. as reflected in our corporate social responsibility commitment statement available on our website, we remain committed to: helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable healthcare products; strong corporate governance; complying with regulatory and legal requirements; demonstrating environmental stewardship; 15 perrigo company plc - item 1 continuously improving packaging sustainability; protecting human rights of our global employees and challenging our partners to do the same; diversity of thought, experience and perspective; providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; and establishing effective community partnerships. through these efforts, we strive to minimize our impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices, and ensure the welfare of our employees, their families, and the communities in which we operate now and into the future. government regulation and pricing the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. in addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. we believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for related risks). united states regulation u.s. food and drug administration the fda has jurisdiction over our rx, otc drug products, api, and infant formula foods. the fda's jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of these products. we are committed to consistently providing our customers with high quality products that adhere to "current good manufacturing practices" ("cgmp") regulations promulgated by the fda. otc and rx pharmaceuticals all facilities where rx and otc products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed for the u.s. market must comply with fda cgmps and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries, states and localities where the facilities are located. all of our drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cgmp regulations. the fda performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. many of our otc products are regulated under the otc monograph system and subject to certain fda regulations. under this system, selected otc drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing. products marketed under the otc monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula, and labeling requirements, including permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients, and dosage levels. it is generally less costly to develop and bring to market a product regulated under the otc monograph system. we also market generic prescription drugs and non-prescription products that have switched from prescription to otc status. prior to commercial marketing, these products require approval by the fda of an anda or nda that provides information on chemistry, manufacturing controls, clinical safety, efficacy and/or bioequivalence, packaging, and labeling. while the development process for these drugs generally requires less time and expense than the development process of a new drug, the size and duration of required studies can vary greatly. prior to the onset of the generic drug user fee amendments of 2012 ( gdufa ), the fda approval of generic drug applications took approximately three to five times longer than approval of innovator drugs. pursuant to gdufa ii, beginning october 1, 2017, year five of the program, the fda pledged to complete a first cycle review on 90% of electronic generic applications within 10 months of submission. under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended ("ffdca") (the hatch-waxman amendments), a company submitting an nda can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for a prescription or otc product if it performs a clinical study that is essential to fda approval. longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs (those designated under section 526 of the ffdca) and drugs under the generating antibiotic incentives now act. during this exclusivity period, the fda cannot 16 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation approve any andas for a similar or equivalent generic product, which can preclude another party from marketing a similar product during this period. a company may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity if it conducts pediatric studies requested by the fda on the product. this exclusivity can delay both the fda approval and sales of certain products. a company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for certain products. this exclusivity period often follows a patent certification and litigation process whereby the product innovator may sue for infringement. the legal action does not ordinarily result in material damages, but it generally triggers a statutorily mandated delay in fda approval of the anda for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge. the food and drug administration safety and innovation act ("fdasia") was signed into law on july 9, 2012. the law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, fda authority concerning drug shortages, changes to enhance the fda's inspection authority of the drug supply chain, and a limited extension of the 30-month stay provision described above. the fdasia also reduced the time required for fda responses to generic-blocking citizen petitions. we implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of the fdasia, and we monitor facility self-identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications. the u.s. government's federal drug supply chain security act ("dscsa") requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. the serialization of all rx products distributed in the u.s. needed to be completed by november 26, 2018, with the requirement for tracking the products commencing on november 27, 2023. requirements for the tracing of products at the lot level through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain went into effect on january 1, 2015 for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. infant formula and foods the fda's center for food safety and applied nutrition is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. the office of nutrition, labeling and dietary supplements ("onlds") has labeling responsibility for infant formula, while the office of food additive safety ("ofas") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. the onlds evaluates whether an infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the ffdca and consults with the ofas regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula. all manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. the infant formula act provides specific requirements for infant formula to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum and, in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients. before marketing a particular infant formula, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation consistent with the fda's labeling, nutrient content, and manufacturer quality control requirements. a manufacturer must notify the fda at least 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. we actively monitor this process and make the appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with recent fda rules regarding cgmp, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records for the production of infant formulas. in addition, the ffdca requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life; to keep records on production, testing, and distribution of each batch of infant formula; to use cgmp and quality control procedures; and to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which may reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. the fda conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula, inspects new facilities during early production runs, and collects and analyzes samples of infant formula. our infant formula manufacturing facilities have been inspected by the fda after the effective date of the final rule and found to be in full compliance with the new gmp regulations with no corrective actions required. 17 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation our infant and toddler foods are subject to the food safety modernization act ("fsma"), which protects the safety of u.s. foods by mandating comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. under fsma, the fda has mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers and is taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of a safety issue. active pharmaceutical ingredients third parties develop and manufacture api for use in certain of our products that are exported to the u.s. and other global markets. before api can be commercialized in the u.s., the manufacturer and/or developer must submit a drug master file ("dmf") that provides the proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. the fda inspects the manufacturing facilities to assess cgmp compliance, and the facilities and procedures must be cgmp compliant before api may be exported to the u.s. the facilities and products are subject to regulation by the applicable regulatory bodies in the place of manufacture as well as the regulatory agency in the country from which the product is exported or imported. for api exported to european markets, the manufacturer must submit a european dmf and, where applicable, obtain a certificate of suitability from the european directorate for the quality of medicines. the manufacturing facilities and production procedures for api marketed in europe must meet eu-gmp and european pharmacopeia standards. u.s. department of agriculture the organic foods production act enacted under title 21 of the 1990 farm bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic." our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio adhere to the standards of the u.s. department of agriculture ("usda") national organic program for production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio are usda-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for u.s. and canadian markets. u.s. environmental protection agency the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") is the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show that their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the u. s., pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. u.s. drug enforcement administration the u.s. drug enforcement administration ("dea") regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, testosterone, midazolam, and list i chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal controlled substances act ("csa"). the csa and dea regulations impose registration, security, record keeping, reporting, storage, manufacturing, distribution, importation and other requirements upon legitimate handlers under the oversight of the dea. the dea categorizes controlled substances into schedules i, ii, iii, iv, or v, with varying qualifications for listing in each schedule. we are subject to the requirements regarding the controlled substances in schedules ii - v and the list i chemicals. our facilities that manufacture, distribute, import, or export any controlled substances must register annually with the dea. 18 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation the dea inspects all manufacturing facilities to review security, record keeping, reporting, and handling prior to issuing a controlled substance registration, and it also periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the csa and its regulations. failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements, particularly as manifested in the loss or diversion of controlled substances, can result in enforcement action, such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registration, or the initiation of proceedings to revoke those registrations. in certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal prosecution. we are also subject to state laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of certain products. federal healthcare programs and drug pricing regulation within the u.s., government healthcare insurance and welfare programs such as the medicare and medicaid programs are important third party payers for patients who take our products. these programs include several indirect forms of price regulation applicable to our drug products as a condition to coverage and/or payment for our products, and also regulate the amount that pharmacies and other healthcare providers will be paid for our products. specifically, u.s. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of having federal funds being made available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b, enter into three government pricing program agreements: (i) a medicaid rebate agreement with the secretary of health and human services ( hhs ) to pay rebates to state medicaid programs for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program; (ii) a 340b program agreement with the secretary of hhs to provide discounts to certain covered entity safety net healthcare providers; and (iii) a master agreement with the department of veterans affairs ("va") under which discounts are available for purchases by federal agencies. we have such agreements in effect. medicaid rebate agreement the medicaid rebate agreement requires the drug manufacturer to remit rebates to each state medicaid agency on a quarterly basis for both fee-for-service and medicaid managed care organization utilization. rebate amounts are based on pricing data reported by the manufacturer to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), including average manufacturer price ("amp") and, in the case of innovator products, best price ("bp"). u.s. law also requires that a company that participates in the medicaid rebate program report average sales price ("asp") information to cms for each calendar quarter for certain categories of drugs that are paid under part b of the medicare program. cms uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under medicare part b. under the medicaid rebate program, the minimum rebate amounts due are as follows: (i) for noninnovator products, in general generic drugs marketed under andas, the rebate amount is 13% of the amp for the quarter; and (ii) for innovator products, in general brand-name products marketed under ndas, the rebate amount is the greater of 23.1% of the amp for the quarter or the difference between such amp and the bp for that same quarter. manufacturers also pay an additional rebate" on innovator drugs where price increases since launch have outpaced inflation. beginning with the first quarter of 2017, an additional rebate is due for noninnovator products, which is calculated somewhat differently from the innovator product additional rebate, but likewise generally applies where and to the extent that a manufacturer's amp increases faster than the rate of inflation. cms issued a final regulation, generally effective april 1, 2016, to implement changes to the medicaid rebate program under the 2010 health reform legislation ( health reform law ) and otherwise to provide program guidance. in addition to guidance concerning rebate program administration matters, the regulation also addressed certain related medicaid reimbursement matters. first, under the health reform law, cms has also begun to use manufacturer amp data to calculate reimbursement limits for pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limits ("fuls"). cms also surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. second, the regulation also directed states to update their medicaid payment methodologies to provide for payment amounts designed to reflect pharmacies' "actual acquisition costs" for drugs, a change from the prior "estimated acquisition" standard. the regulation also required states to provide the government with findings to support their compliance with this standard by april 1, 2017. pricing and rebate calculations are governed by statutory and regulatory requirements that are complex, vary among products and programs, can change over time, and are subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies , and the courts. in the case of the medicaid rebate program, if we become aware of errors in 19 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation our prior price submissions, or a prior bp submission needs to be updated due to late arriving data, we must resubmit the updated data within specified time frames. such restatements and recalculations increase our cost of compliance with the medicaid rebate program, and corrections can result in an overage or underage of our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. 340b program agreement the 340b drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340b ceiling price for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. the ceiling price is derived from the data the manufacturer reports under the medicaid rebate program and therefore any changes to statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to the medicaid price figures may impact the 340b ceiling price calculation as well. 340b covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the public health service, as well as certain hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. master agreement with the department of veterans affairs u.s. law also requires any company that participates in the medicaid rebate program and medicare part b and that wants its covered drugs paid for by certain federal agencies and grantees to enter into a master agreement with the va. under the master agreement, the company must offer its innovator drugs for procurement under the federal supply schedule ( fss ) contracting program, and must charge certain agencies (va, department of defense, public health service and the coast guard) no more than a statutory federal ceiling price ( fcp ). the fcp is calculated based on non-federal average manufacturer price ( nfamp ) data we submit to the va. fss contracts include extensive disclosure and certification requirements and standard government terms and conditions with which we must comply. consistent with va's interpretation of the master agreement, we have also entered into an agreement to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to tricare beneficiaries by tricare network retail pharmacies. medicare part d coverage gap rebates for certain innovator products, manufacturers must also enter into an agreement with the secretary of hhs to provide rebates with respect to utilization of their products by certain medicare part d beneficiaries while those patients are within the medicare part d benefit coverage gap. manufacturers are not required to submit separate pricing data under this program; the rebate amount is calculated by cms based on part d plans' negotiated prices paid to pharmacies. other price regulation in addition to these technical government pricing regulation programs, drug pricing has come under increasing public scrutiny arising out of general concerns about high drug costs or price increases, and transparency of pricing and discounting practices within the pharmaceutical distribution system. several states, including maryland, nevada, and california, have recently enacted laws that prohibit price gouging, require manufacturers to report certain information concerning price increases exceeding certain amounts, and/or provide advance notice of price increases to certain entities (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks related to the above-mentioned programs). other u.s. regulations and organizations we are subject to various other federal, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. other regulatory agencies, organizations, legislation, regulation and laws that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: physician payment sunshine act - this act requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data. 20 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation foreign corrupt practices act of 1977 ("fcpa") - this act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. federal trade commission ("ftc") - this agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. the ftc considers whether a product's claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. the ftc also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. international organization for standardization ("iso") - the iso standards specify requirements for a quality management system that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. our infant formula manufacturing sites are iso 9001-2008 certified for quality management systems. iso inspections are conducted at least annually. united states pharmacopeial convention, inc. ("usp") - the usp is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. by reference, the ffdca incorporates the usp quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product's labeling. usp standards exist for most rx and otc pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. the fda typically requires usp compliance as part of cgmp compliance. health insurance portability and accountability act ("hipaa") - we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. consumer product safety commission ("cpsc") - the cpsc has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. the manufacturer of any product that is subject to any cpsc rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with cpsc requirements. anti-bribery laws - various jurisdictions in which we operate have laws and regulations, including the u.k. bribery act 2010, aimed at preventing and penalizing corrupt and anticompetitive behavior. other state agencies - we are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state. regulation outside the u.s. we develop and manufacture products and market third-party manufactured products in regions outside the u.s., including eastern and western europe, israel, mexico, australia, countries in asia, south america, and the middle east, each of which has its own regulatory environment. the majority of our sales outside the u.s. are in the following categories: otc/rx pharmaceuticals, medical devices, dietary supplements and cosmetics. other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: privacy regulations - we are subject to numerous global laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the european union directive on data protection (which will be replaced by the european union general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) from may 2018 onward). the gdpr will introduce more stringent data protection requirements in the european union ("eu"), as well as substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. the gdpr will increase our responsibility and potential liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the gdpr. 21 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation transparency laws - in various jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to the laws and regulations aimed at increasing transparency of financial relationships between healthcare professionals and pharmaceutical/medical device manufacturers. european union otc and rx pharmaceuticals the european pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the european parliament and the european commission. this has many benefits, including the potential to harmonize standards across the complex european market. however, obtaining regulatory agreement across member states presents complex challenges that can lead to delays in the regulatory process. in the eu, as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of medicinal products are regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the u.s. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any medicinal product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. the registration file relating to any particular product must contain data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and/or references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. between 1995 and 1998, the over-arching regulation that governs medicinal products was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. this revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition procedure ( mrp ), whereby after approval of a marketing authorization by regulatory authorities in the reference member state ( rms ), additional marketing authorizations could be submitted to other concerned member states to obtain a product license. in november 2005, the medicinal product legislation was further revised to introduce the decentralized procedure ( dcp ), whereby marketing authorizations are submitted simultaneously to the rms and select concerned member states. in 2005, the ema also opened up the centralized procedure to sponsors of marketing authorizations for generic medicinal products. unlike the mrp and dcp, the centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization and product labeling across all member states that will allow a sponsor to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the eu countries listed on the application. marketing authorizations and subsequent product licenses are granted to applicants only after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product. in addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer's facilities obtain approval from an eu regulatory authority. the eu has a code of gmp that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. regulatory authorities in the eu may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems and personnel qualifications. we believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject. eu member states had to transpose the european falsified medicines directive (the directive ) into national law by january 2, 2013. the transposition process is now complete. the provisions of the directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of api manufactured outside of the eu. the directive required the serialization of all rx and some otc products, similar to the dscsa in the u.s. in the eu, member states regulate the pricing of prescription medicinal products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. this regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. these individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. the implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally tendering refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country. data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, although the application is not uniform. in general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities 22 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. as these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. the requirements deriving from european pharmacovigilance regulation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors' expectations. pharmacovigilance fee regulation became effective in late 2014 to support health authority assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals. once approved, the advertising of pharmaceuticals in the eu is governed by national regulations and guidelines. within certain member states this is overseen by a self-certification process whereas in others national governance bodies approve material prior to release. the wholesale distribution of medicinal products is an important activity in the integrated supply chain management. the quality and the integrity of medicinal products can be affected by a lack of adequate control. to this end, the eu commission has published guidelines on good distribution practice of medicinal products for human use in 2013. the present guidelines are based on articles 84 and 85b(3) of medicinal products for human use directive. medical devices the eu has enacted into law numerous directives and adopted many harmonizing standards pertaining to a wide range of industrial products, including medical devices. medical devices that comply with the requirements of applicable directives are entitled to bear the ce marking of conformity, which indicates that the device conforms to the applicable requirements of the directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout europe. the method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an organization accredited by a member state. assessment by a notified body includes an audit of the manufacturer's quality system and may also include specific testing of the product. this assessment is a prerequisite for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the eu. dietary supplements dietary supplements are subject to several regulations that inform the selection of ingredient levels and how products can be described on packaging and in advertising. these regulations include: food supplements directive 2002/46/ec, food information to consumers regulation (eu) no 1169/2011, permitted vitamins and minerals regulation (ec) 1170/2009, food additives regulation (ec) 1333/2008, nutritional &amp; health claims regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, the foods intended for particular nutritional uses directive 2009/39/ec, and regulation (eu) 609/2013. eu rules on nutrition and health claims, which were established by regulation ec 1924/2006, apply to any nutritional or health claim by a manufacturer. the objective of the regulation is to ensure that claims made in food labeling or advertising are clear, accurate and based on scientific evidence. the european food safety authority, an advisory panel to the european commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. an eu register of nutrition and health claims exists to document approved, pending, and rejected claims. cosmetics cosmetic products in the eu market must comply with regulation ec no. 1223/2009. this regulation requires manufacturers to prepare a product safety report prior to placing a cosmetic product in the market. in addition, for each cosmetic product placed in the market, a responsible person must be designated to oversee compliance with the regulation's reporting requirements. commission regulation eu no. 655/2013 establishes the common criteria and justification for claims to be used in the packaging and advertising of cosmetics products. 23 perrigo company plc - item 1 employees as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately 10,400 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 24% were covered by collective bargaining agreements. we consider our employee relations generally satisfactory. available information our principal executive offices are located at treasury building, lower grand canal street, dublin 2, ireland, and our north american base of operations is located at 515 eastern avenue, allegan, michigan 49010. our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. our website address is www.perrigo.com , where we make available free of charge our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). these filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il . item 1a. risk factors risks related to operations we face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical and consumer goods companies that may threaten the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our products compete against store brand, generic, and branded pharmaceuticals. competition is also impacted by changes in regulations and government pricing programs that may give competitors an advantage. as a manufacturer of generic versions of brand-name drugs through our chca and rx segments, we experience competition from brand-name drug companies that may try to prevent, discourage or delay the use of generic versions through various measures, including introduction of new branded products, legislative initiatives, changing dosage forms or dosing regimens, regulatory processes, filing new patents or patent extensions, lawsuits, citizens' petitions, and negative publicity prior to introduction of a generic product. in addition, brand-name competitors may lower their prices to compete with generic products, increase advertising, or launch, either through an affiliate or licensing arrangements with another company, an authorized generic at or near the time the first generic product is launched, depriving the generic product potential market exclusivity. our chca and rx segments may experience increased price competition as other generic companies produce the same product, sometimes for dramatically lower margins in order to gain market share. other generic companies may introduce new drugs and/or drug delivery techniques that make our current products less desirable. a drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity, and thereafter, we may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars. the pharmaceutical industry is consolidating. this creates larger competitors and places further pressure on prices, development activities, and customer retention. our animal health category within the chca segment has seen an increase in direct to consumer advertising by several branded competitors, which may increase in the future, and our nutritionals category has experienced increased competition through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail and direct sales. we develop and distribute branded products primarily through our chci segment. we experience competition from other brand-name drug companies, many of which are larger and have more resources to devote to advertising and marketing. these direct competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. our current and future competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those offered by us at more competitive prices. 24 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our chca and rx segments also experience competition from our generic competitors, some of whom are significantly larger than we are, who may develop their products more rapidly or complete regulatory approval processes sooner, or may market their products earlier than we do. if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed through loss of customers or increased negative pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our operating results. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market innovative products that meet customer demands, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. our continued growth is due in large part to our ability to develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer requirements for quality, safety, efficacy, and cost effectiveness. continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to our business. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market new products, we could lose market share, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. see item 1. business - research and development for more information . we maintain a diversified product line to function as a primary supplier for our customers. capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. our future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. in addition, if we fail to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, we may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions. our product margins may decline over time due to our products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice, changes in competition for our existing products, or the introduction of next generation innovative products; therefore, new product introductions are necessary to maintain our current financial condition. if we are unable to continue to create new products, we may lose market share or experience pricing pressure, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. we must prove that the regulated generic drug products in our chca and rx segments are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which may require bioequivalence studies, and in the case of topical products, even more extensive clinical endpoint trials to demonstrate their efficacy. the development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly, and subject to a high degree of business risk. products currently under development may require re-design to meet evolving fda standards, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies, or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges. necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. any of these events may negatively impact our net sales. even if we are successful in developing a product, our customers' failure to launch one of our products successfully, or delays in manufacturing developed products, could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the fda or similar regulatory agency could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain regulatory clearance to launch new formulations into the market, which could negatively impact our future net sales. our chca and chci segments are impacted by changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to adapt to these changes, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. while the market for store brand products has grown in recent years, there can be no assurance that the pace of this growth will continue. consumer preferences related to health and nutritional concerns may change, which could negatively impact demand for our chca and chci products or cause us to incur additional costs to change our products or product packaging. the future growth and stability of u.s. store brand market share will be impacted, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products. our chca segment sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and consumers return to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products. conversely, while store brand products present an 25 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors alternative to higher-priced branded products, if economic conditions deteriorate, our chca segment sales could be negatively impacted if consumers forgo obtaining healthcare or reduce their healthcare spending. our chci segment's success is dependent on the continued growth in demand for its lifestyle products, which include weight-loss products and various dietary supplements. if demand for these products decreases, our chci segment's results of operations would be negatively impacted. our chca customers may request changes in packaging to meet consumer demands, which could cause us to incur inventory obsolescence charges and redesign costs, which in turn would negatively impact our chca segment's results of operations. our infant formula product category within our chca segment is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. our business depends, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. to the extent that private, public, and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products. we could also be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the u.s. federal government through the women, infants and children program, as we do not participate in this program. we operate in highly regulated industries, and any inability to timely meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. we are subject to the regulations of a variety of u.s. and non-u.s. agencies related to the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products as described in detail in item 1. business - government regulation and pricing . government regulation in the markets in which we operate impacts our business, and our future results could be materially adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. below are some of the ways in which government regulation could impact our business and/or financial results: we must obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies in order to manufacture and sell our products in the regions in which we operate. obtaining this approval can be time consuming and costly. there can be no assurance that, in the event we submit an application for a marketing authorization to any global regulatory agency, we will obtain the approval to market a product and/or that we will obtain it on a timely basis. laws unique to the u.s. regulatory framework encourage generic competition by providing eligibility for first generic marketing exclusivity if certain conditions are met. if we are granted generic exclusivity, the exclusivity may be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics; or it is possible that we may forfeit 180-day exclusivity if we do not obtain regulatory approval or begin marketing the product within the statutory requirements. finally, if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of our product and/or possibly reducing our market share. global regulatory agencies regularly inspect our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our third-party suppliers. the failure of one of our facilities, or a facility of one of our third-party suppliers, to comply with applicable laws and regulations may lead to a breach of representations made to our customers, or to regulatory or government action against us related to the products made in that facility. such action could include suspension of or delay in regulatory approvals. if the compliance violations are severe, agencies of the government may initiate product seizure, injunction, recall, suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, or civil or criminal prosecution, thereby impacting the reputation of all of our products. in the u.s., the dscsa requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period beginning on january 1, 2015, for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. similarly, the european commission passed legislation requiring new product packaging safety features' to prevent falsification of medicinal products primarily within the 26 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors prescription medicines sector. the act was adopted february 9, 2016. eu member states (with the exception of belgium, italy and greece), and eea members norway, iceland, liechtenstein and switzerland must be in compliance within three years, or by february 9, 2019. belgium, italy, and greece have until february 9, 2025 to comply. marketing authorization holders will have three years from the publication date to implement the necessary changes or risk forfeiting their product licenses. compliance with the new u.s. and eu electronic pedigree requirements may increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. global regulatory agencies highly scrutinize any product application submitted to switch a product from physician prescribed rx to unsupervised otc use by the general public. the expansion of rx-to-otc switches is critical to our future growth. reluctance of regulatory agencies to approve rx-to-otc switches in new product categories could impact that growth. our infant formula products may be subject to barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and dictating the specific content of infant formula products. governments could enhance regulations on the industry aimed at ensuring the safety and quality of dairy products, including, but not limited to, compulsory batch-by-batch inspection and testing for additional safety and quality issues. such inspections and testing may increase our operating costs related to infant formula products. if we are unable to successfully obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances and list i chemicals, we risk having delayed product launches or failing to meet commercial supply obligations. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements for controlled substances and list i chemicals, the dea, or similar regulatory agency, may take regulatory actions, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution of our products, withdrawal of our products from the market, or other penalties. in order to commercially distribute our medical device products in the eu, they need to conform with the requirements of applicable eu directives. the method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an organization accredited by a member state, which includes an audit of the manufacturer's quality system and, for some products, specific product testing. if our products fail to meet the applicable eu directives, then we may not meet our projected growth targets and/or incur fines and penalties. our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, such as restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies. we must also comply with a variety of u.s. laws related to doing business outside of the u.s., including office of foreign asset controls; united nations and eu sanctions; the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. further changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare, may affect our business and operations. changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations in the countries in which we operate could impose restrictions or delays on our ability to manufacture, distribute, sell or market our products, may be difficult or expensive for us to comply with, and may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, or financial condition. 27 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors continuing healthcare reforms and related changes to reimbursement methods in and outside of the united states may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. increasing healthcare expenditures have received considerable public attention in many of the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., government programs such as medicare and medicaid, as well as private insurers, have been focused on cost containment. in some markets in the eu and outside the u.s., the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. our rx segment in particular could be materially adversely impacted by measures taken by governmental entities or private insurers to restrict patients' access to our products or increase pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases, and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. these actions may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices or may reduce the ability of customers to pay for our products, which could materially negatively impact the rx segment's results of operations. if we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. as described in item 1. business - medicaid drug rebate programs , we have entered into various government drug pricing agreements with the u.s. government. there are inherent risks associated with participating in these programs, including the following: by their nature, these programs require us to provide discounts and rebates and therefore reduce our net product revenues. further, because the amounts of these discounts are based on our commercial sales practices and can be adversely affected by both significant discounts and price increases, it is important that we maintain pricing practices that appropriately take into account these government pricing programs. we are required to report pricing data to cms, including amp, on a monthly and quarterly basis and bp and asp on a quarterly basis. we also are required to report quarterly and annual non-famps to the va. if we fail to submit required information on a timely basis, make misrepresentations, or knowingly submit false information to the government as to amp, asp, or bp, we may be liable for substantial civil monetary penalties or subject to other enforcement actions, such as under the false claims act, and cms may terminate our medicaid drug rebate agreement. in that event, u.s. federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs. because many of our products may be subject to medicaid fuls or cms's new medicaid actual acquisition cost payment methodology standard, our products may be subject to reimbursement pressures, and in some cases, those pressures may result from practices outside of our control, including how our competitors price their equivalent products. based on our initial evaluation, we do not believe that the changes have had a material impact on our business. however, states are continuing to evaluate their payment methods, and we cannot predict how the new ful or state payment methodologies will affect our pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers may seek additional discounts in light of reimbursement changes. we also cannot predict how the sharing of ful data and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace in the future. under the 340b program, if we fail to provide required discounts to covered entities, we may be subject to refund claims or civil money penalties under that program. if we inadvertently overcharge the government in connection with our fss contract or tricare agreement, whether due to a misstated fcp or otherwise, we would be required to refund the difference. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in false claims act allegations or potential violations of other laws and regulations. unexpected refunds to the government, and responses to a government investigation or enforcement action, are expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. 28 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. our calculations and methodologies are subject to review by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that these reviews could result in challenges to our submissions. if we do not comply with those reporting and payment obligations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare programs. lack of availability, or significant increases in the cost, of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results. affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. in addition, maintaining good supply relationships is essential to our ongoing operations. see item 1. business - materials sourcing for more information. we maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher-volume or more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of net sales. additionally, global regulatory requirements for obtaining product approvals could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. as a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers could have a negative material impact on our financial results. our infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder, and lactose. our supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality we deem necessary. raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond our control including seasonal and environmental factors, governmental agricultural and environmental policy, and global demand. we cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients necessary to produce infant formula. our products, and the raw materials used to make the products mentioned above, generally have limited shelf lives. our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. we may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. cargo thefts and/or diversions, and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may occur, causing unexpected shortages and harm to our reputation, which may have a material impact on our operations. we rely on third parties to source many of our raw materials, as well as to manufacture sterile, injectable products that we distribute. we maintain a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants, and toxic substances. nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes, or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of the contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. any future recall or removal would result in additional costs and lost revenue, harm our reputation, and may give rise to product liability litigation. changes in regulation could impact the supply of the api and certain other raw materials used in our products. for example, the eu recently promulgated new standards requiring all api imported into the eu be certified as complying with gmp established by the eu. the regulations placed the certification 29 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries, which led to an api supply shortage in europe as certain governments were not willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api or other raw ingredients could cause us to have to cease manufacture of certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers are unable to export. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow. a disruption at any of our main manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a few locations. see item 1. business - manufacturing and distribution for more information on our significant operations. a significant disruption at one or more of these facilities, whether it be due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, intentional acts of vandalism, war, terrorism, insufficient quality, or pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business. additionally, regulatory authorities routinely inspect all of our manufacturing facilities for cgmp compliance. while our manufacturing sites are cgmp compliant, if a regulatory authority were to identify serious adverse findings not corrected upon follow up inspections, we may be required to issue product recalls, shutdown manufacturing facilities, and take other remedial actions. if any manufacturing facility were forced to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. any breach, disruption or misuse of our information systems, cyber security efforts or personal data could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems to operate our business. our systems, information, and operations, as well as our independent vendor relationships (where they support information technology and manufacturing infrastructure), are highly complex. these systems may contain confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property or proprietary business information). the size and complexity of these systems makes them potentially vulnerable to disruption or damage from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, sabotage, industrial espionage, and computer viruses. such events may be difficult to detect, and once detected, their impact may be difficult to assess. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the national laws implementing the european union directive on data protection (which will be replaced by the eu gdpr from may 2018 onward). the eu gdpr will introduce more stringent data protection requirements in the eu, as well as substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. the eu gdpr will increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the new eu data protection rules. these risks include: breaches or disruptions could impair our ability to develop, meet regulatory approval efforts, produce, and/or ship products, take and fulfill orders, and/or collect and make payments on a timely basis; any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower sales volume, and incur significant liabilities; we could incur significant expense by ensuring compliance with any required disclosures mandated by the numerous global privacy and security laws and regulations; and any interruption, security breach, or loss, misappropriation, or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 30 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors because our business depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of our sales, our business would be adversely affected by a disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' businesses. sales to our largest customer, walmart, comprised approximately 13% of our net sales for the year ended december 31, 2017 . while no other customer individually comprised more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. if our relationship with walmart or any of our other significant customers, including the terms of doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on us (refer to item 1. business - significant customers ). many of our customers, which include chain drug stores, wholesalers, distributors, hospital systems, and group purchasing organizations, continue to merge or consolidate. such consolidation has provided, and may continue to provide, customers with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures we face. the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. in addition, a number of our customers have instituted sourcing programs limiting the number of suppliers of generic pharmaceutical products carried by that customer. these developments have resulted in heightened pricing pressure on our products, as well as competition among generic drug producers for business from a smaller and more selective customer base. additionally, if we are unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, and/or end their relationships with us. although we have divested our rights to the tysabri royalty stream, we are entitled to additional milestone payments if certain specified thresholds are met , and any negative developments related to tysabri could have a material adverse effect on our receipt of those payments. we occasionally enter into arrangements that entitle us to potential royalties from third parties. our most significant royalty has been the tysabri royalty stream which we received quarterly from biogen. during the year ended december 31, 2016, $84.4 million of cash was earned, which was received during the year ended december 31, 2017 . on march 27, 2017, we divested our rights to the tysabri royalty stream to royalty pharma for $2.2 billion in cash at closing and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in milestone payments if global net sales of tysabri meet specific thresholds in 2018 and 2020, respectively. our receipt of these milestone payments may be negatively impacted if the royalty streams decrease and are insufficient to meet the specified thresholds. given the fact these milestone payments are recorded at fair value, if it is determined that tysabri global sales levels do not meet specific thresholds, we would recognize a material charge in the consolidated statement of operations. factors that may have an adverse effect on the tysabri royalty stream include: companies working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis that, if successfully developed, would compete with, or could gain greater acceptance than, tysabri and damage it's market share. in february 2016, a competitor's pipeline product, ocrevus , received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda, this product was launched in 2017. the product is expected to compete with tysabri and have a significant negative impact on the tysabri royalty stream; biogen is the owner of the patents on tysabri . the loss of protection of these patents, such as a patent invalidation, could adversely affect the royalty stream from tysabri . in addition, once the tysabri patents expire, other generic companies may introduce products similar to tysabri that could adversely affect the royalty stream; foreign currency movement, which could have a negative impact on biogen's tysabri sales, thereby reducing the royalties; any negative developments relating to tysabri , such as safety, efficacy, or reimbursement issues, could reduce demand for tysabri ; and adverse regulatory or legislative developments could limit or prohibit the sale of tysabri , such as restrictions on the use of tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management 31 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors programs, which may significantly reduce expected royalty revenue and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. additionally, tysabri sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings on the label, including the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ("pml"), a serious brain infection. the risk of developing pml may increase with prior immunosuppressant use, longer treatment duration, or the presence of certain antibodies. increased incidence of pml could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label, or result in market withdrawal. in addition, the result of ongoing or future clinical trials involving tysabri or other adverse events reported in association with the use of tysabri may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of tysabri . furthermore, there can be no assurance that royalty pharma will pay either or both of the milestone payments even if the specified thresholds are met. we are dependent on the services of certain key members of management. our inability to successfully manage transition, or the failure to attract and retain other key members of management, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. key functions for us include executive managers, operational managers, r&amp;d scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists, and sales/marketing personnel. if we are unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, our future operating results may be adversely impacted. management transition creates uncertainties, and any difficulties we experience in managing such transitions may negatively impact our business. recently, we have experienced changes in our executive leadership. in june 2017, we announced the forthcoming retirement of john t. hendrickson as our chief executive officer. on january 8, 2018, we announced the appointment of uwe roehrhoff as president and chief executive officer and member of our board. mr. hendrickson will continue to serve in an advisory role until march 15, 2018. in addition, in february 2017, we announced the resignation of judy l. brown as our executive vice president, business operations and chief financial officer, effective february 27, 2017. ronald l. winowiecki, who had been with the company in various treasury and senior finance roles since october 2008, most recently as our senior vice president of business finance, served as acting chief financial officer from february 27, 2017 until his appointment as chief financial officer on february 20, 2018. changes in executive management create uncertainty. moreover, changes in our company as a result of management transition could have a disruptive impact on our ability to implement, or result in changes to, our strategy and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products, and may be affected by changing consumer preferences. negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations, or recalls, regardless of whether they involve us or our products. the mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients, or concerns about our products or the materials used in our products, could discourage consumers from buying our products, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported. our products involve risks such as product contamination, spoilage, mislabeling, and tampering that could require us to recall one or more of our products. serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against us that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses, delays in the issuance of governmental approvals for new products, or other governmental penalties, all of which could be detrimental to our reputation and reduce demand for our products. 32 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we cannot guarantee that counterfeiting, imitation or other tampering with our products will not occur or that we will be able to detect and resolve it. any counterfeiting or contamination of any products could negatively impact our reputation and sales, particularly if counterfeit or imitation products cause death or injury to consumers. many of the brands we acquired from omega have european recognition. this recognition is the result of the large investments omega has made in its products over many years. the quality and safety of the products are critical to our business. if we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about safety, quality, efficacy, or similar matters, sentiments toward us and our products could be negatively impacted. our chci segment's financial success is dependent on the success of its brands, and the success of these brands can suffer if marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers and the performance of the segment may be negatively impacted if spending on such plans and initiatives does not generate the returns we anticipate. in addition, given the association of individual products within the commercial network of our chci segment, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of other products, thereby potentially hurting our financial results. powdered infant formula products are not sterile. all of our infant formula products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. depending on the product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw materials, the processing and packaging of food products, and the use and handling by consumers, hospital personnel, and healthcare professionals. in the event that certain of our infant formula products are found or alleged to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not under our control, our reputation and our infant formula product category sales could be materially adversely affected. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputation damage. the company and our employees increasingly utilize social media as a means of internal and external communication. to the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. a violation of such guidelines may damage our reputation as well as cause potential lawsuits and adversely affect our operating activities. our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. negative posts or comments about us, store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation and could adversely affect the price of our securities. in addition, negative posts or comments about our products could result in increased pharmacovigilance reporting requirements, which may give rise to liability if we fail to fully comply with such requirements. 33 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of our management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. some of the factors that may impact our quarterly results include the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu and allergy seasons, the flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by us and our competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in accounting pronouncements, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by our customers, and the timing of retailer promotional programs. these and other factors may result in significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. we may not be able to sustain or improve operating results in our business segments. we have experienced a reduction in pricing expectations during 2017 in comparison to historical patterns in our u.s. businesses, in particular in our rx segment, due to competitive pressures in the sector. the reduced pricing is attributable to a variety of factors including increased focus from customers to capture supply chain productivity savings, competition in specific product categories, the loss of exclusivity on certain products, the recent increase in the speed and number of approvals from the fda, and consolidation of certain customers in the rx segment. we expect this pricing environment to continue to impact the company for the foreseeable future. the chci segment has been positively impacted by market dynamics in countries such as the nordics, italy, and portugal offset by softness in certain brand categories in france and germany, as well as by unfavorable foreign currency impacts primarily in the u.k. related to brexit. in addition, the segment had been impacted in belgium due to cancellations of unprofitable distribution agreements. the chci segment has restructured its approach to addressing these markets including: (1) the implementation of a brand prioritization strategy to address these market dynamics, with an objective to balance the cost of advertising and promotional investments with expected contributions from category sales, and (2) restructured its sales force in each of these markets to more effectively serve customers. the combination of these actions is expected to improve the segment's focus on higher value otc products, reduce selling costs and improve operating margins in the segment. we continue to experience a reduction in pricing expectations within our chca segment, primarily in the cough/cold, animal health, and analgesics categories due to various factors, including focus from customers to capture supply chain productivity savings and competition in specific product categories. we expect this pricing environment to continue to impact our chca segment for the foreseeable future. there can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience challenges related to our segments, and these challenges could have a material impact on our business, cash flows, and results of operations or result in impairment charges, and the market value of our ordinary shares and/or debt securities may decline. we may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in the normal course of business, we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions and divestitures. these transactions are accompanied by a number of risks. many of these risks are beyond our control, and any one of them could result in increased cost, decreased net sales and diversion of management's time and energy, any or all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. acquisitions one of our strategies is inorganic growth through the acquisition of products and companies that we expect will benefit the company. this strategy comes with a number of financial, managerial, and operational risks. we may not realize the benefits of an acquisition because of integration and other challenges, including, but not limited to the following: difficulty involved with managing the expanded operations of the respective parties, as well as identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities; 34 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors uncertainties involved in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of the respective parties, as well as identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities of acquisition targets; unanticipated changes in the business, industry, market or general economic conditions different from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction; difficulties due to a lack of, or limited experience in, any new product or geographic markets we enter; inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies, or return on investment, from an acquisition in the amounts or on the time frame anticipated; substantial demands on our management, operational resources, technology, and financial and internal control systems, which could lead to dissatisfaction and potential loss of key customers, management, or employees; integration activities that may detract attention from our day-to-day business, and substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts; and difficulties, restrictions or increased costs associated with raising future capital in connection with an acquisition may impact our liquidity, credit ratings and financial position, thereby making it more difficult, restrictive or expensive to raise future capital. in addition, the issuance of equity to pay a portion of the purchase price for an acquisition would dilute our existing shareholders. divestitures we may evaluate potential divestiture opportunities with respect to portions of our business (including specific assets or categories of assets) from time to time, and may proceed with a divestiture opportunity if and when we believe it is consistent with our business strategy and initiatives. any future divestitures could expose us to significant risk, including without limitation: our ability to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and personnel to any purchaser; fees for legal and transaction-related services; diversion of management resources; and loss of key personnel and reduction in revenue. if we do not realize the expected strategic, economic or other benefits of any divestiture transaction, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our business could be negatively affected by the performance of our collaboration partners and suppliers. we have entered into strategic alliances with partners and suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, or components of our products in various markets. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations. there is a risk that our investments in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. while we believe our relationships with our partners and suppliers generally are successful, disputes, conflicting priorities or regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefit of the collaboration (refer to item 8. note 17 for additional detail on our collaborative agreements and other contractual arrangements). a failure or inability of our partners or suppliers to fulfill their collaboration obligations, or the occurrence of any of the risks above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject us to losses and may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we have recorded significant intangible assets and goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of previous acquisitions, which could become impaired and lead to material charges in the future. as of the year ended december 31, 2017 , we recorded definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $19.7 million related to developed product technology/formulation and product rights, and distribution and license 35 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors agreements primarily in our rx segment and $12.7 million of impairment charge related to certain ipr&amp;d assets primarily in our rx segment. as of the year ended december 31, 2016, we recorded the following impairments: goodwill impairment charges of $1.1 billion related to our specialty sciences, branded consumer healthcare-rest of world ("bch-row"), bch-belgium, and animal health reporting units. indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $1.5 billion related to: trademarks, trade names and brands, developed product technology/formulation and product rights, distribution and license agreements, and supply agreements. we perform an impairment analysis on intangible assets subject to amortization when there is an indication that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicates a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. as of december 31, 2017 , the net book value of our intangible assets and goodwill were $3.4 billion and $4.2 billion , respectively. see item 8. note 3 for more information on the above impairment charges. there can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives will achieve their intended effects. we are in the process of implementing certain initiatives designed to increase operational efficiency and improve our return on invested capital by globalizing our supply chain through global shared service arrangements, streamlining our organizational structure, making key executive employee changes, performing a strategic portfolio review, and disposing of certain assets. we believe these initiatives will enhance our net sales, operating margins, and earnings; however, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will produce the anticipated benefits. any delay or failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our projected results. we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting; failure to remediate the material weakness could negatively impact our business and the price of our ordinary shares. in connection with our review of certain material misstatements related to the characterization of the tysabri royalty stream, income taxes and the evaluation of long-lived assets in our animal health reporting unit for impairment testing, in each case contained in certain of our historical financial statements and identified as part of our december 31, 2016 year end, we concluded that there were material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that contributed to those misstatements. the material weaknesses over the income tax process that was identified during our fiscal year ended december 31, 2016 was not remediated during our fiscal year ended december 31, 2017, and we determined that we did not design or maintain effective controls over our income tax accounting process. as a result of the material weaknesses, we concluded that we did not maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2016, april 1, 2017, july 1, 2017, september 30, 2017 or december 31, 2017 based on criteria established in internal control - integrated framework (2013) issued by the committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission ( coso ). the failure to maintain effective control over financial reporting in turn resulted in material deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures. we continue to identify and implement, actions to improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, but there can be no assurance that such remediation efforts will be successful. we have also incurred and may continue to incur substantial accounting, legal, consulting, and other costs in connection with remediating the material weaknesses. failure to remediate the material weaknesses could have a negative impact on our business and the market for our ordinary shares. for more information on our material weaknesses and the status of our remediation efforts, see item 9a - controls and procedures , which includes management's report on internal control over financial reporting . 36 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors global risks our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. we manufacture, source raw materials, and sell our products in a number of countries. the percentage of our business outside the u.s. has been increasing. we are subject to risks associated with international manufacturing and sales, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; problems related to markets with different cultural biases or political systems; possible difficulties in enforcing agreements; longer payment cycles and shipping lead-times; difficulties obtaining export or import licenses; changes to u.s. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the u.s., including but not limited to, goods imported from mexico; and imposition of withholding or other taxes. additionally, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering import/export regulations. to the extent that we are unable to successfully defend against an audit or review, we may be required to pay assessments, penalties, and increased duties. certain of our facilities operate in a special purpose sub-zone established by the u.s. department of commerce foreign trade zone board, which allows us certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. if the foreign trade zone board were to revoke the sub-zone designation or limit our use, we could be subject to increased duties. although we believe that we conduct our business in compliance with applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and economic sanctions or other anti-corruption laws, if we are found to not be in compliance with such laws or other anti-corruption laws, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. this risk increases in locations outside of the u.s., particularly in locations that have not previously had to comply with the fcpa, u.k. bribery act, and similar laws. we operate in jurisdictions that could be affected by economic and political instability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations and supply partners could be affected by economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities, unstable governments and legal systems, and inter-governmental disputes. we have significant operations in israel, which has experienced varying degrees of hostility in recent years. doing business in israel and certain other regions involves the following risks: certain countries and international organizations have refused to do business with companies with israeli operations. we are also precluded from marketing our products to certain countries due to u.s. and israeli regulatory restrictions. international economic sanctions and boycotts of our products could negatively impact our sales and ability to export our products. our facilities in israel are within a conflict zone. if terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to our facilities, our business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, we would need to obtain prior regulatory agency approval for a change in manufacturing site. in addition, our insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. 37 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors the u.s. department of state and other governments have at times issued advisories regarding travel to certain countries in which we do business. as a result, regulatory agencies have at various times curtailed or prohibited their inspectors from traveling to inspect facilities. if these inspectors are unable to inspect our facilities, the regulatory agencies could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities. our international operations may be subject to interruption due to travel restrictions, war, terrorist acts, and other armed conflicts. also, further threats of armed hostilities in certain countries could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the cancellation of contracts or the loss of assets. these events could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations. the uk held a referendum on june 23, 2016 on its membership in the eu. a majority of uk voters voted to exit the eu ( brexit ). the uk is scheduled to leave the eu on march 29, 2019, and negotiations are taking place to determine the future terms of the uk's relationship with the eu, including the terms of withdrawal, the terms of future trading and relations and any potential transition periods. brexit has created significant instability and volatility in the global financial markets, has led to significant weakening of the british pound compared to the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and could adversely affect european or worldwide economic or market conditions. although it is unknown what the future trading terms with the eu will be, they may impair the ability of our operations in the eu to transact business in the future in the uk, and similarly the ability of our uk operations to transact business in the future in the eu. specifically, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and eu countries, increased restrictions on freedom of movement for employees, and increased regulatory complexities. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. further, among other things, brexit could reduce consumer spending in the uk and the eu, which could result in decreased demand for our products. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, operations, and financial results. while the challenging global economic environment has not had a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources, impact our ability to obtain financing, or decrease the value of our assets. the challenging economic conditions have also impacted the movements in exchange rates, which have experienced significant recent volatility. uncertainty regarding the future growth rates between countries, the influence of central bank actions, and the changing political environment globally may contribute to continued high levels of exchange rate volatility, which could have an adverse impact on our results. our customers could be adversely impacted if economic conditions worsen. our chca segment does not advertise its products like national brand companies and thus is largely dependent on retailer promotional activities to drive sales volume and increase market share. if our customers do not have the ability to invest in store brand promotional activities, our sales may suffer. additionally, while we actively review the credit worthiness of our customers and suppliers, we cannot fully predict to what extent they may be negatively impacted by slowing economic growth. the international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates. we report our financial results in u.s. dollars. however, a significant portion of our net sales, assets, indebtedness and other liabilities, and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. these currencies include among others the euro, indian rupee, british pound, canadian dollar, israeli shekel, australian dollar, and mexican peso. the addition of omega, a euro-denominated business, that represents a significant portion of our net sales and earnings, and a substantial portion of our net assets, has significantly increased our exposure to changes in the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate. approximately 34% of omega's sales are in other foreign currencies, with the majority of the product costs for these markets denominated in euros. in addition, several emerging market economies are particularly vulnerable to the impact of rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, weaker oil and other commodity prices, and large external deficits. while some of 38 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors these jurisdictions are showing signs of stabilization or recovery, others continue to experience levels of stress and volatility. risks in one country can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in another country or countries. as a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our operations. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. in addition, we may also be exposed to credit risks in some of those markets. we may implement currency hedges or take other actions intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are not successful in mitigating the effects of changes in exchange rates on our business, any such changes could materially impact our results. risks related to litigation and insurance we are or may become involved in lawsuits and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings. we may become involved in lawsuits arising from a wide variety of commercial, manufacturing, development, marketing, sales and other business-related matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, pricing, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising, unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product quality/recall, environmental remediation, securities law, disclosure, and regulatory issues. litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. we intend to vigorously defend against any lawsuits, however, we cannot predict how the cases will be resolved. adverse results in the cases could result in substantial monetary judgments. no assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the future (refer to item 8. note 16 for more information on specific ongoing litigation). we may be subject to liability if our products violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where our products are distributed. the successful assertion of product liability or other product-related claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, and we could incur substantial legal expenses. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation may suffer. we may face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. while we do not have any material remediation liabilities currently outstanding, we may in the future face liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under or in our currently or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility that we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. the actual or alleged presence of these substances, or the failure to remediate them, could have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on our ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. there can be no assurance that environmental liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on us. see item 1. business - information applicable to all reportable segments - environmental for more information . our chci segment regularly makes advertising claims regarding the effectiveness of its products, which we are responsible for defending. an unsuccessful defense of product-related claims could result in potentially significant monetary damages and substantial legal expenses. even if a claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation could suffer. additionally, we may be the target of claims asserting violations of securities fraud and derivative actions, or other litigation proceedings in the future. 39 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors increased scrutiny on pricing practices and competition in the pharmaceutical industry, including antitrust enforcement activity by government agencies and class action litigation, may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. there has been increased scrutiny regarding sales, marketing, and pricing practices in the pharmaceutical industry from both government agencies and the media, including allegations of price gouging and/or collusion. this includes recent u.s. congressional inquiries and hearings in connection with the investigation of specific price increases by several pharmaceutical companies, proposed and enacted legislation seeking greater transparency in drug pricing, and criminal investigations regarding drug pricing. u.s. federal and state prosecutors have issued subpoenas to a number of pharmaceutical companies seeking information about their drug pricing practices, and several class action lawsuits have been filed that allege price-fixing with respect to various pharmaceutical products. in december 2016, the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice (the antitrust division ) filed criminal charges against two former executives from a competitor of the company for their roles in conspiracies to fix prices, rig bids and allocate customers for certain generic drugs. on may 2, 2017, we disclosed that search warrants were executed at a number of perrigo facilities and other locations in connection with the antitrust division's ongoing investigation related to drug pricing in the pharmaceutical industry. although no charges have been brought to date against perrigo or any of our current employees (or, to the best of our knowledge, former employees), we take the investigation very seriously. if criminal antitrust charges are filed involving perrigo, we would incur substantial litigation and other costs, and could face substantial monetary penalties, injunctive relief, negative publicity and damage to our reputation. regardless of the ultimate outcome, responding to those charges would divert management's time and attention and could impair our operations. further, we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory changes may result from the ongoing public scrutiny of our industry, what the nature of any such changes might be, or what impact they may have on perrigo. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and reputation. we are cooperating with the government's investigation and are committed to operating our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and the highest standards of ethical conduct. we do not condone, and will not countenance, any violation of these standards by our employees, agents, and business partners. publishing earnings guidance subjects us to risks, including increased stock volatility that could lead to potential lawsuits by investors. because we publish earnings guidance, we are subject to a number of risks. actual results may vary from the guidance we provide investors from time to time, such that our stock price may decline following, among other things, any earnings release or guidance that does not meet market expectations. it has become increasingly commonplace for investors to file lawsuits against companies following a rapid decrease in market capitalization. we have been in the past, and may be in the future, named in these types of lawsuits. these types of lawsuits can be costly and divert management attention and other resources away from our business, regardless of their merits, and could result in adverse settlements or judgments, which could have a material impact on the company. third-party patents and other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to bring new products to market and may subject us to potential legal liability, causing us to incur significant costs. the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. 40 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors as a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products, the ability of our chca and rx segments to bring new products to market is often limited by third-party patents or proprietary rights and regulatory exclusivity periods awarded on products. launching new products prior to resolution of intellectual property issues may result in us incurring legal liability if the related litigation is later resolved against us. the cost and time for us to develop prescription and rx-to-otc switch products is significantly greater than the rest of the new products that we introduce. any failure to bring new products to market in a timely manner could cause us to lose market share, and our operating results could suffer. we could have to defend against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. this could require us to incur substantial expense and could divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel. if we are found to have infringed on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or manufacture some products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. additionally, if we choose to settle a dispute through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products. at times, our chca or rx segments may seek approval to market drug products before the expiration of patents for those products, based upon our belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by our products. in these cases we may face significant patent litigation. depending upon a complex analysis of a variety of legal and commercial factors, we may, in certain circumstances, elect to market a generic pharmaceutical product while litigation is pending, before any court decision, or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending, known as an "at risk" launch. the risk involved in an "at risk" launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to the patent holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic version of the product. by electing to proceed in this manner, we could face substantial damages if we receive an adverse final court decision. in the case where a patent holder is able to prove that our infringement was "willful" or "exceptional," under applicable law, the patent holder may be awarded up to three times the amount of its actual damages or we may be required to pay attorneys' fees. the success of certain of our products depends on the effectiveness of measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights and patents. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. we have been issued patents covering certain of our products, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries. any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by us may not provide us with any significant competitive advantages for our products or may even be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using, or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees, and consultants. if these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. 41 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of the insurance we maintain could adversely impact our financial condition. to protect the company against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs, including property, general and product, and directors' and officers' liability. we may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. we are self-insured when insurance is not available or not available at reasonable premiums. risks associated with insurance plans include: insurance costs could increase significantly, or the availability of insurance may decrease, either of which could adversely impact our financial condition; deductible or retention amounts could increase or our coverage could be reduced in the future and to the extent losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we maintained (refer to item 8. note 16 for further information related to legal proceedings); product liability insurance may not be available to us at an economically reasonable cost (or at all for certain specific products) or our insurance may not adequately cover our liability in connection with product liability claims (refer to item 8. note 16 for further information related to legal proceedings); and as our business inherently exposes us to claims for injuries allegedly resulting from the use of our products, we may become subject to claims for which we are not adequately insured. unanticipated payment of a large claim may have a material adverse effect on our business. tax related risks the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs") may not agree with the conclusion that we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. although we are incorporated in ireland, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("code"). for u.s. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. for perrigo company plc to be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the code, either (i) the former stockholders of perrigo company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our stock by reason of holding shares in perrigo company (the "ownership test") as of the closing of the elan acquisition or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in ireland after the elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). upon our acquisition of elan, perrigo company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of our shares. as a result, we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, we cannot assure that the irs will agree with our position that the ownership test is satisfied. there is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test. an unfavorable determination on perrigo company plc's treatment as a foreign corporation under section 7874 of the code could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that section 7874 of the code likely will limit our and our u.s. affiliates' ability to use their u.s. tax attributes, such as net operating losses, to offset certain u.s. taxable income, if any, generated by the elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the elan acquisition (refer to item 8, note 14 ). 42 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors changes to tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, any of the following could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes: changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the code, the irs treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other irs guidance; and legislative proposals aimed at expanding the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence. on april 4, 2016, the united states treasury ("treasury") and the irs issued a package of temporary regulations that incorporate the guidance promised in the 2014 and 2015 notices and provide other rules. these temporary regulations are generally effective for certain inversion transactions completed on or after november 19, 2015 or, in certain cases, to certain specified post-inversion transactions occurring after that date provided that an inversion transaction had occurred on or after september 22, 2014. we do not believe that those regulations would apply to our transaction, which occurred prior to those effective dates. treasury and the irs also issued final regulations on june 3, 2015, which address the substantial business activities test of section 7874 of the code. we believe that those regulations, which have an effective date of june 4, 2015, also do not impact the treatment of our status as a foreign corporation under section 7874, as our transaction also occurred prior to the effective date of those final regulations. on october 16, 2016, treasury released final regulations regarding corporate tax inversions and related earnings stripping. these final regulations include provisions that may be interpreted to impact otherwise common tax structures including intercompany financing and obligations. we believe that these regulations do not materially impact our intercompany financing and obligations. treasury has indicated that they will continue to study certain portions of the proposed regulations that were not finalized, and we will evaluate the impacts of any additional guidance or regulations to our cross-border treasury management practices and intercompany financing structures at that time. we have no assurance that such guidance, if any, will not impact our ability to utilize existing or similar structures in the future. the organization for economic co-operation and development, which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles relating to base erosion and profit shifting ("beps"). these changes are being adopted and implemented by many of the countries in which we do business and may increase our taxes in these countries. in addition, the european commission has launched several initiatives to implement beps actions including an anti-tax avoidance directive ("atadi &amp; ii") and having a common (consolidated) corporate tax base. it is unclear at present if and how these initiatives will be implemented by the eu countries. specifically, ireland is embarking on a consultation process to implement the atad &amp; ii directives and beps related measures. the shape of this reform may adversely impact our consolidated effective tax rate. on december 25, 2017, belgium enacted a tax reform bill ( belgium tax act ) providing for a simplified tax system including, among other items, a corporate income tax rate reduction from 33% to 29% in 2018 (and to 25% from 2020) and an increase in the participation exemption on qualifying dividends from 95% to 100% (refer to item 8, note 14 for further information related to the belgium tax act). on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted the tax cuts and jobs act ( u.s. tax act ). the u.s. tax act includes a number of significant changes to existing u.s. tax laws that impact us. these changes include a corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21% and the elimination or reduction of certain u.s. deductions and credits, including limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation. the u.s. tax act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system. this modified territorial system includes, among other items, base erosion prevention measures which have the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our u.s. owned foreign corporations to u.s. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) and the establishment of a minimum tax on certain payments from our u.s. subsidiaries to related foreign persons as base erosion and anti-abuse tax ( beat ). these changes are effective beginning in 2018. the u.s. tax act also includes a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated u.s. owned foreign 43 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors corporations' previously untaxed foreign earnings ( transition toll tax ). the transition toll tax will be paid over an eight-year period starting in 2018 and will not accrue interest. our preliminary estimate of the impact of the u.s. tax act (including the transition toll tax) is subject to the finalization of management's analysis related to certain matters, such as developing interpretations of the provisions of the u.s. tax act, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain u.s. owned foreign subsidiaries and the filing of our tax returns. u.s. treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the u.s. tax act may require further adjustments and changes in our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. the final determination of the impact of the u.s. tax act (including the transition toll tax) will be completed as additional information becomes available, but no later than one year from the enactment of the u.s. tax act (refer to item 8, note 14 for further information related to the u.s. tax act). any of these changes could have a prospective or retroactive application to us, our shareholders, and affiliates, and could adversely affect us by changing our effective tax rate and limiting our ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. our effective tax rate or cash tax payment requirements may change in the future, which could adversely impact our future results from operations. a number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates or cash tax payment requirements, which may impact our future results and cash flows from operations (refer to item 8. note 14 for further information related to income taxes). these factors include, but are not limited to: changes to tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (including additional proposals for fundamental international tax reform); income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to our interpretation of transfer pricing standards, treatment or characterization of intercompany transactions, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; divestitures of current operations; and repatriation of non-u.s. earnings with respect to which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. the resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit or any related litigation could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made and in future periods after the determination. in addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments. we are currently involved in several audit and adjustment related disputes, including litigation, with the internal revenue service ( irs ). these include litigation regarding our 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 tax years, as well as proposed audit adjustments related to litigation costs and transfer pricing positions related to athena neurosciences, inc. ( athena ), a subsidiary of elan acquired in 1996, for the 2011, 2012 and 2013 tax years. 44 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. unfavorable resolutions of the audit matters discussed above could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. (refer to item 8. note 14 for further information related to uncertain tax positions and ongoing tax audits and item 8. note 16 for further information related to legal proceedings). risks related to capital and liquidity our historical failure to timely file our periodic reports with the sec may limit our options in accessing the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, which in turn may limit our ability to pursue future transactions or strategies. we did not timely file our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2016 or our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended april 1, 2017. as a result, there currently are limits on our ability to access the public markets. for example, we are not eligible to use form s-3 until we establish the required history of making timely filings for twelve full calendar months. the ability to use form s-3 to register public offerings in the united states offers certain benefits, such as relatively lower costs and shorter time-frames to prepare a registration statement and cause it to become effective, which may enhance our ability to take advantage of positive market conditions as they develop. the limited availability of access to the public markets could increase the time and costs related to raising capital or prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing future business strategies. we expect we will again become eligible to use form s-3 as of june 1, 2018; however, any failure by us to timely file one or more of our periodic reports or otherwise remain current in our sec reporting requirements may further inhibit our ability to access the public markets. our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategic initiatives. we anticipate that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and borrowings available under our credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. our business requires continuous capital investments, and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. additionally, our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect the business. at december 31, 2017 , our total indebtedness outstanding was $3.3 billion . our senior credit facilities, the agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. we also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. if we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities, agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. any default under our senior credit facilities or agreements governing our senior notes or other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. if our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay or refinance our debt or obtain sufficient new financing. downgrades to our credit ratings may limit our access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs on current or future financing, including via trade payables with vendors. customers' inclination to purchase goods from us may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of our credit ratings. there are various maturity dates associated with our credit facilities, senior notes, and other debt facilities. there is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. further, there is no assurance that future refinancing or renegotiation of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt facilities, or additional agreements will not have materially different or more stringent terms (refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). 45 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we cannot guarantee that we will buy back our ordinary shares pursuant to our announced share repurchase plan or that our share repurchase plan will enhance long-term shareholder value. in october 2015, our board of directors authorized a $2.0 billion three-year share repurchase plan. during the three months ended december 31, 2015, we repurchased shares through the plan totaling $500.0 million . during 2016, we did not purchase any shares in the open market. during 2017, we repurchased $191.5 million worth of shares. the specific timing and amount of buybacks, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our ordinary shares, and the nature of other investment opportunities. buybacks of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase plan could affect the market price of our ordinary shares or increase their volatility. additionally, our share repurchase plan could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. although our share repurchase plan is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so, and short-term share price fluctuations could reduce the plan's effectiveness. any additional shares we may issue could dilute your ownership in the company. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders, and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by the articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights by way of special resolution with respect to any particular allotment of shares. our articles of association contain, as permitted by irish company law, a provision authorizing our board of directors to issue new shares for cash without offering preemption rights. the authorization of the directors to issue shares and the authorization of the waiver of the statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and we cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. we are incorporated in ireland; irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014 (the "act"). the act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification of directors. under irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. as a result, shareholders of irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax, and capital acquisitions tax. there is no treaty between ireland and the u.s. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in ireland, the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and be for a final and conclusive sum. an irish court may exercise its right to refuse to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if it violated irish public policy, if it is in breach of natural justice, or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. 46 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors an irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. judgments of u.s. courts of liabilities predicated upon u.s. federal securities laws may not be enforced by irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in ireland. we are subject to irish takeover rules under which our board of directors is not permitted to take any action without shareholder or irish takeover panel approval that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once we have received an approach that may lead to an offer, or have reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent. further, it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction than if we were a u.s. company because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under irish law. we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends in the future. a number of factors may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future, including: the availability of distributable reserves, as approved by our shareholders and the irish high court; our ability to receive cash dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries; compliance with applicable laws and debt covenants; and our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 94 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risk we are a global company with operations throughout north america, europe, australia, mexico, and israel. we transact business in each location's local currency and in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposures to changes in exchange rates. our largest exposure is the movement of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro, which has increased due to the omega acquisition. in addition, our u.s. operations continue to expand their export business, primarily in canada, china, and europe, and are subject to fluctuations in the respective exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. a large portion of the sales of our israeli operations is in foreign currencies, primarily u.s. dollars and euros, while these operations largely incur costs in their local currency. further, a portion of biogen's global sales of tysabri are denominated in local currencies creating exposures to changes in exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar and thereby impacting the amount of u.s. dollar royalties necessary to achieve our contingent payment thresholds in 2018 and 2020. due to different sales and cost structures, certain segments experience a negative impact and certain segments a positive impact as a result of changes in exchange rates. we estimate the translation effect of a ten percent devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to the other foreign currencies in which we transact business would have increased operating income of our non-u.s. operating units by approximately $87.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2017 . this sensitivity analysis has inherent limitations. the analysis disregards the possibility that rates of multiple foreign currencies will not always move in the same direction relative to the value of the u.s. dollar over time and does not account for foreign exchange derivatives that we utilize to mitigate fluctuations in exchange rates. in addition, we enter into certain purchase commitments for materials that, although denominated in u.s. dollars, are linked to foreign currency valuations. these commitments generally contain a range for which the price of materials may fluctuate over time given the value of a foreign currency. the translation of the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated operations is made using local currency exchange rates as of the end of the year. translation adjustments are not included in determining net income but are disclosed in accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci") within shareholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheets until a sale or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the subsidiary takes place. in certain markets, we could recognize a significant gain or loss related to unrealized cumulative translation adjustments if we were to exit the market and liquidate our net investment. as of december 31, 2017 , cumulative net currency translation adjustments decreased shareholders' equity by $260.6 million . we monitor and strive to manage risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. exposures that cannot be naturally offset within a local entity to an immaterial amount are often hedged with foreign exchange derivatives or netted with offsetting exposures at other entities (refer torisk factors 23 risk factors - tax related risks and item 8. note 14 ). rx separation on august 9, 2018, we announced a plan to separate our rx business, which, when completed, will enable us to focus on expanding our consumer-facing businesses. we have begun the preparations for the separation, which may include a possible sale, spin-off, merger or other form of separation. while we are currently targeting to complete the separation by the end of 2019, the form of separation may delay its completion beyond this date. in connection with the proposed separation, we anticipate incurring significant preparation costs, excluding restructuring expenses and transaction costs, in the range of $45.0 million to $80.0 million depending on the final structure of a transaction, with a spin-off resulting in costs at the higher end of this range. api divestitures during the year ended december 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our india api business to strides shasun limited for $22.2 million in proceeds. prior to closing the sale, we determined that the carrying value of the india api business exceeded its fair value less the cost to sell, resulting in an impairment charge of $35.3 million , which was recorded in impairment charges on the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended december 31, 2016. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our israel api business to sk capital, for a sale price of $110.0 million . financial asset during the year ended december 31, 2016, we initiated a strategic review of the tysabri financial asset and identified impairment indicators of the fair value of that royalty stream, which led to a goodwill impairment of $199.6 million , which was recorded in impairment charges on the consolidated statements of operations. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we divested the tysabri financial asset to royalty pharma for up to $2.85 billion , consisting of $2.2 billion in cash and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in milestone payments. as a result of this transaction, we transferred the entire financial asset to royalty pharma and recorded a $17.1 million gain. we elected to account for the contingent milestone payments using the fair value option method, and these were recorded at an estimated fair value of $134.5 million as of december 31, 2017. during the year ended december 31, 2018, tysabri met the 2018 global net sales threshold resulting in a $170.1 million gain recorded in change in financial assets . we received the $250.0 million royalty payment on february 22, 2019. in order for us to receive the 2020 milestone payment, royalty pharma contingent payments for tysabri sales in 2020 must exceed $351.0 million . the fair value of the 2020 milestone payment is $73.2 million as of december 31, 2018. omega acquisition on march 30, 2015, we acquired omega pharma invest n.v. ("omega"), one of the largest otc companies in europe, for $3.0 billion in equity and cash and assumed debt of $1.6 billion, for a total purchase price of $4.6 billion. the omega acquisition expanded our otc leadership position into continental europe, accelerated our international expansion and geographic diversification through enhanced scale and a broader footprint, and diversified our net sales and cash flow streams. the broader european platform established through the omega acquisition facilitated the acquisition of a portfolio of well-established otc brands sold primarily in europe from glaxosmithkline consumer healthcare ( gsk ), on august 28, 2015, as well as naturwohl pharma, gmbh ("naturwohl"), with its leading german dietary supplement brand yokebe , on september 15, 2015. 4 perrigo company plc - item 1 business overview during the year ended december 31, 2016, we identified impairment indicators associated with certain intangible assets and goodwill, which required us to test these assets for impairment. as a result, we recorded total impairments of $2.0 billion which was recorded in impairment charges on the consolidated statements of operations (refer to item 8. note 4 ). new products we consider a product to be new if it (i) was reformulated, (ii) was a product line extension due to changes in characteristics such as strength, flavor, or color, (iii) had a change in product status from "prescription only" ("rx") to otc, (iv) was a new store brand or branded launch, (v) was provided in a new dosage form or (vi) was sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities, in all cases, within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , new product sales were $169.7 million . consumer healthcare americas overview the chca segment is focused primarily on the sale of store-brand products, including otc cough, cold, allergy and sinus, analgesic, gastrointestinal, smoking cessation, infant formula and food, diagnostic products, and animal health products in the u.s., mexico and canada. we are a leading provider of consumer healthcare products sold to consumers via store brands as well as consumer healthcare products under our own brands. consumer awareness and knowledge of the quality and value that otc store brand products represent continues to grow due to efforts to promote their own label programs. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , our chca segment represented approximately 51% of consolidated net sales. the chca segment develops, manufactures, and markets store-brand products that are comparable in quality and effectiveness to national brands. store brand products must meet the same u.s. food and drug administration ("fda") requirements as national brands within the u.s. and the requirements of comparable regulatory bodies outside the u.s. in most instances our product packaging is designed to invite and reinforce comparison to national brand products, while communicating store brand value to consumers. the cost of store brand products to retailers is significantly lower than that of comparable nationally advertised brand-name products. generally, retailers' dollar profit per unit of store brand product is greater than the dollar profit per unit of the comparable national brand product. the retailer, therefore, can price a store brand product below the competing national brand product and realize a greater profit margin. the consumer benefits by receiving a high quality product at a price below the comparable national brand product. as a result, our business model results in consumers saving money on their healthcare spending. we are dedicated to continuing to be the leader in developing and marketing new store brand products, including infant formula, and have a research and development ("r&amp;d") staff that we believe is one of the most experienced in the industry at developing products comparable in formulation and quality to national brand products. our r&amp;d team also responds to changes in existing national brand products by reformulating existing products. for example, in the otc pharmaceutical market, certain new products are the result of changes in product status from rx to otc. these rx-to-otc switches require fda approval through a process initiated by the drug innovator. the drug innovator usually begins the process by filing a new drug application ("nda"), which is often followed by a competitor filing an anda. new drugs are also marketed through the fda's otc monograph process, which allows for the production of drugs that are generally recognized as safe and effective without pre-marketing approval. the chca segment also develops, manufactures, and distributes certain branded products, which is consistent with the segment's healthcare strategy to meet consumer needs wherever they are sold. branded products are sold under the brand names good sense , sergeant's , sentry , zephrex d , petarmor , and scaraway brand names. we manufacture a significant portion of our chca segment's products at our plants in the u.s., mexico, and israel, and we source the remaining product materials from third parties. we rely on both internal r&amp;d and strategic 5 perrigo company plc - item 1 chca product development agreements with outside sources to develop new products. in addition, in order to maximize both our capacity and sales of proprietary formulas, we engage in contract manufacturing, which involves producing unique andas and monograph products through partnerships with major pharmaceutical and direct-to-consumer companies. we believe the increasing age of the population, in combination with continued rising healthcare costs, will drive the need for the greater value that our store brand products provide consumers. in addition, we believe that new products and products switching from rx to otc (as described above) will continue to drive growth within the segment. recent developments on may 29, 2018 , we entered into a license agreement with merck sharp &amp; dohme corp. ("merck") that will allow us to develop and commercialize an otc version of nasonex-branded products, as well as other products containing the same active ingredient. in connection with this license agreement, we paid an upfront license fee of $50.0 million . in addition, if we achieve certain development milestones, we will make future milestone and royalty payments. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we identified indications of impairment in the animal health reporting unit. the impairment indicators related to changes in channel dynamics, a strategic decision to re-prioritize our brands, and a decline in the forecasted outlook of the reporting unit. we recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $213.3 million in impairment charges on the consolidated statements of operations. products our chca segment offers products in the following categories: product category description analgesics pain relievers and fever reducers cough/cold/allergy/sinus cough suppressant, chest expectorant, sinus and pain pressure relief gastrointestinal antacids, anti-diarrheal, and anti-heartburn products infant nutritionals infant formula and food products smoking cessation gums, lozenges, and other products designed to help users quit smoking animal health pet health and wellness products vms vitamins, minerals and dietary supplements other feminine hygiene, diabetes care, dermatological care, diagnostic products, scar management, and other miscellaneous healthcare products 6 perrigo company plc - item 1 chca the chart below reflects net sales by product category in the chca segment, which includes net sales from our otc contract manufacturing business for the year ended december 31, 2018 . we launched a number of new chca products in the year ended december 31, 2018 , most notably esomeprazole magnesium (store brand equivalent to nexium 24hr capsules), omeprazole delayed release orally disintegrating tablets, and infant formula products. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , new product sales in the chca segment were $48.7 million . we, on our own or in conjunction with partners, received final fda approval from u.s. health authorities for four new products within the chca segment in the year ended december 31, 2018 , and as of december 31, 2018 , we had eight new product applications pending fda approval. sales and marketing our customers include major global, national, and regional retail drug, supermarket, and mass merchandise chains such as walmart, costco, kroger, target, cvs, walgreens boots alliance, dollar general, sam's club, rite aid, amazon, aldi, petsmart, and petco, and major wholesalers, including mckesson, amerisource bergen, and cardinal health. we seek to establish customer loyalty through superior customer service by providing a comprehensive assortment of high quality, value-priced products; timely processing, shipment and delivery of orders; assistance in managing customer inventories; and support in managing and building the customer's store brand business. the chca segment employs its own sales force to service larger customers, and uses industry brokers for other customers. field sales employees, with support from marketing and customer service, are assigned to specific customers in order to work most effectively with the customer. they assist customers by developing customized brand and in-store marketing programs for customers' store brand products. the primary objective of this store brand management approach is to enable our customers, retailers and wholesalers, to increase sales and market share of their own store brand products by communicating store brand 7 perrigo company plc - item 1 chca quality and value to the consumer and by inviting comparison to national brand products. our sales and marketing personnel assist customers in the development and introduction of new store brand products and in the promotion of customers' existing store brand products by providing market information; establishing individualized promotions and marketing programs, which may include floor displays, bonus sizes, coupons, rebates, store signs, and promotional packs; and performing consumer research. as ecommerce continues to grow as a consumer channel for our products, we are developing resources, programs and tools to be a strategic marketing partner for our customers' digital marketing efforts. in contrast with national brand manufacturers, which incur considerable advertising and marketing expenditures targeted directly to the end user or consumer, the chca segment's primary marketing efforts are channeled through retailers and wholesalers and reach the consumer through our customers' in-store marketing programs and our digital media programs. because the retail profit margin for store brand products is generally higher than for national brand products, retailers and wholesalers often commit funds for additional promotions. our animal health category, which has a greater emphasis on value-branded products, promotes product awareness through direct-to-consumer advertising, including television commercials, online advertising, in-store display vehicles, and social media. in addition to in-store marketing programs, our infant formula category markets directly to consumers and healthcare professionals. competition the markets for otc pharmaceuticals, smoking cessation, and infant formula are highly competitive and differ for each product line and geographic region. our primary competitors include manufacturers, such as lnk international, inc., pl developments, and dr. reddy's labs, and brand-name pharmaceutical and consumer product companies, such as johnson &amp; johnson, pfizer, bayer ag, gsk, nestle s.a. (gerber), abbott nutrition, aurobindo, and mead johnson nutrition co. the competition is highly fragmented in terms of geographic market coverage and product categories, such that a competitor generally does not compete across all product lines. however, some competitors do have larger sales volumes in certain of our categories. additionally, national brand companies tend to have more resources committed to marketing their products and could in the future manufacture store brands of their products at lower prices than their national brand products. competition is based on a variety of factors, including price, quality, assortment of products, customer service, marketing support, and approvals for new products (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition). consumer healthcare international overview the chci segment is comprised of our branded consumer products across self-care, skin care, and lifestyle products primarily in europe and our consumer focused businesses in the u.k., australia, and israel. this segment also includes our u.k. liquid licensed generic product business. the chci segment develops, manufactures, markets and distributes many well-known european consumer healthcare brands in the cough, cold, allergy, sinus, lifestyle, personal care and derma-therapeutics, natural health and vitamins, smoking cessation, and anti-parasite categories. in addition, the segment leverages its broad regulatory, sales, and distribution infrastructure to in-license and sell third-party brands and generic pharmaceutical products. the chci segment distributes these products through an extensive network of customers including pharmacies, wholesalers, drug and grocery store retailers, and para-pharmacies in 27 countries, primarily in europe. many chci products have market leading positions in the markets in which they compete. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , the chci segment represented approximately 32% of consolidated net sales. through continued investment in r&amp;d partnerships and new technologies, the chci segment strives to offer high quality products that meet consumers' needs. the combination of internal r&amp;d, new product development, insourcing, acquisitions, and partnerships support the new product pipeline, both in terms of brand extensions and product improvements. in the u.k., r&amp;d focuses on oral liquid formulations for the branded rx products for which liquid formulations are not available, as well as the development of store brand products and 8 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci products for the branded business. additional r&amp;d centers are located in france, sweden, austria, and belgium. in the rest of europe, most r&amp;d is performed by external partners with oversight by our teams. the segment has seven plants dedicated to manufacturing certain of its products. the chci segment primarily focuses on building local and regional brands. in many markets outside of the u.s., a brand marketing strategy can be more effective than a store brand strategy due to the absence of mass merchandisers and large scale pharmacy chains. additionally, the absence of a centralized regulatory environment within europe adds to the complexity of obtaining approvals for products in these markets. while the chci segment sells products from over 200 brands both on its own and through third parties, it focuses its resources on its "focus brands", which are selected on the basis of their current sales and growth potential in the otc market. additional resources are allocated to these brands to build strong positions in the largest, most highly profitable categories in the otc market, while maintaining leadership in smaller branded categories. recent developments management continues to implement its previously disclosed strategy for brand prioritization, sales force restructuring, and manufacturing insourcing, which is expected to reduce selling costs, improve operating margins and focus on higher value otc products. as part of this strategy, we implemented a new restructuring plan in our chci segment that is expected to improve our cost structure. products below are the categories in which the chci segment competes and some of the top brands in each category. product category description focus brands cough, cold, allergy, and sinus products that address pain relief and respiratory symptoms, including traditional medications and alternative treatments such as aromatherapy solutions. bittner /aflubin bronchenolo /bronchostop libenar physiomer phytsosun /valda solpadeine /coldrex / antigrippine lifestyle weight management, pregnancy and fertility kits, sleep management, smoking cessation, and eye care. niquitin silence /nytol xls (medical) personal care and derma-therapeutics products for the face and body, including sun care, baby-specific, and feminine hygiene products, and solutions for various skin conditions and allergies such as eczema, psoriasis and rosacea. aco biodermal canoderm dermalex lactacyd wartner natural health and vitamins, minerals, and supplements vitamins, minerals, supplements, and various other natural remedies. abtei biover davitamon granufink ymea anti-parasite products focused on the elimination of parasites in both humans and pets including lice treatment and insect repellent. jungle formula paranix 9 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci the chart below reflects net sales by product category in the chci segment for the year ended december 31, 2018 . we launched a number of new chci products in the year ended december 31, 2018 , most notably phytsosun , paranix , and aco . during the year ended december 31, 2018 , new product sales in the chci segment were $77.8 million . the chci segment has more than 100 strategic new products in 12 product categories in development, with each of its focus brands having a five-year innovation master plan. sales and marketing our customers include pharmacies, drug stores, and grocery stores located primarily in europe, including walgreens boots alliance, asda, tesco, dm, rossmann, etos, and kruidvat. the chci segment sells its products primarily through an established pharmacy sales force to an extensive network of individual pharmacists. our sales representatives visit pharmacists frequently, ensuring strong in-store visibility of our brands and facilitating pharmacist education programs. our sales, marketing, and regulatory teams use training/merchandising teams to work in conjunction with local sales representatives to improve our brands' presence and recognition. we seek to attract key talent from leading otc, fast moving consumer goods ("fmcg"), and retailer companies to build strong local teams throughout the countries in which the chci segment operates. while chci products have a higher average gross margin than products sold by the chca segment, selling expenses are significantly higher due to the sales force mentioned above, as well as broadcast advertising and point-of-sale promotional spending to enhance brand equity. key marketing communication tools for the chci segment include television and digital commercials, consumer leaflets, product websites, and targeted promotional campaigns. competition the competitive landscape of the european consumer products market, in the categories in which we compete, is highly fragmented, as local companies often hold leadership positions in individual product segments in particular countries. as a result, the relevant competition in each of the chci segment's markets is both local and 10 perrigo company plc - item 1 chci global. competitors include sanofi, bayer, reckitt benckiser, gsk, novartis, and johnson &amp; johnson, as well as additional regional competitors. we believe our key advantage lies in our unique combination of best practices in sales, marketing, and product development from fmcg and otc/rx, while embracing the pharmacy channel to drive self-care (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for additional information and risks associated with competition). prescription pharmaceuticals overview the rx segment develops, manufactures, and markets a portfolio of generic prescription drugs primarily in the u.s. we define this portfolio as predominantly "extended topicals" as it encompasses a broad array of dosage forms such as creams, ointments, lotions, gels, shampoos, foams, suppositories, sprays, liquids, suspensions, and solutions. the portfolio also includes select controlled substances, injectables, hormones, oral solid dosage forms, and oral liquid formulations. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , the rx segment represented approximately 17% of consolidated net sales. in addition to extended topical products, our current development areas include other delivery systems such as oral liquids, metered dose inhalers, injectables, and transdermal products, some of which we are developing with third parties. our other areas of expertise include our production capabilities for controlled substances and hormonal products. r&amp;d efforts focus on complex formulations, many of which require costly clinical endpoint trials. we manufacture our topical and oral products in the u.s. and israel, and also source from various fda-approved third parties. rx products are manufactured, labeled, and packaged in facilities that comply with strict regulatory standards and meet customers' stringent requirements. in addition, the rx segment offers otc products through the prescription channel (referred to as "orx ", these products are marketed using the perrigo name). orx products are otc products that are available for pharmacy fulfillment and may be eligible for healthcare reimbursement when prescribed by a physician. we offer numerous orx products that are reimbursable through many health plans and the u.s. medicaid and medicare programs. we actively collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies to develop, manufacture, and market certain products or groups of products. these types of agreements are common in the pharmaceutical industry. we may choose to enter into these types of agreements to, among other things, leverage our or our collaborators' scientific r&amp;d expertise, or utilize our extensive marketing and distribution resources (refer to item 8. note 2 for more information regarding our method for recognizing revenue and expenses related to collaboration agreements, as well as item 8. note 17 for more information regarding our collaboration agreements). recent trends and developments we continue to experience a significant year-over-year reduction in pricing in our rx segment due to competitive pressures. this softness in pricing is attributable to various factors, including increased focus from customers to capture competition in specific products, supply chain productivity savings, and consolidation of certain customers. while in the fourth quarter of 2018, we experienced a year-over-year decrease in pricing pressure, we expect softness in pricing to continue to impact the segment for the foreseeable future. on august 9, 2018, we announced a plan to separate our rx business, which, when completed, will enable us to focus on expanding our consumer-facing businesses. we have begun the preparations for the separation, which may include a possible sale, spin-off, merger or other form of separation. while we are currently targeting to complete the separation by the end of 2019, the form of separation may delay its completion beyond this date. in connection with the proposed separation, we anticipate incurring significant preparation costs, excluding restructuring expenses and transaction costs, in the range of $45.0 million to $80.0 million depending on the final structure of a transaction, with a spin-off resulting in costs at the higher end of this range. 11 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx products listed below are some of the generic prescription products, including authorized generic and orx products, that we manufacture and/or distribute: generic name (1) comparative brand-name drug adapalene cream differin bacitracin ophthalmic ointment n/a benzoyl peroxide 5% - clindamycin 1% gel benzaclin tm budesonide entocort clindamycin foam evoclin clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gel duac clobetasol foam, lotion and shampoo olux , olux-e , clobex desonide cream, ointment desonate , tridesilon dihydroergotamine injection d.h.e. 45 halobetasol ointment and cream ultravate hydrocortisone suppositories n/a mupirocin ointment bactroban nystatin topical powder mycostatin olopatadine nasal spray patanase permethrin cream elimite scopolamine patch transdermscop tacrolimus protopic testosterone 1.62% gel androgel testosterone cypionate injection depo , testosterone testosterone solution axiron triamcinolone acetonide nasal spray nasacort aq triamcinolone cream/ointment triderm /kenalog tretinoin cream and gel retin-a (1) contains the same active ingredients present in the same dosage form as the comparable brand-name drug we launched a number of new rx products in the year ended december 31, 2018 , most notably testosterone gel 1.62% (generic equivalent to androgel ). during the year ended december 31, 2018 , new product sales in the rx segment were $43.2 million . during the year ended december 31, 2018 , we, on our own or in collaboration with partners, received final approval from fda health authorities for four rx drug applications, and as of december 31, 2018 , we had 27 rx drug applications pending approval. sales and marketing our customers include sourcing groups such as red oak, wbad and clarusone, major wholesalers, national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, hospitals, and pharmacies. competition the market for rx products is subject to intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies launching their own generic version of their branded products (known as an authorized generic), manufacturers of branded drug products that continue to produce those products after patent expirations, and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. among our generic drug manufacturer competitors are taro pharmaceuticals, mylan, teva pharmaceutical industries ltd., glenmark generics inc., akorn, lupin, and apotex corp. 12 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx we believe that one of our primary competitive advantages is our ability to introduce difficult to develop and/or manufacture topical generic versions to brand-name drug products. generally, these products are exposed to less competition due to the relatively longer and more expensive development, clinical trial, and approval processes. in addition, we believe we have a favorable competitive position due primarily to our efficient distribution systems, topical production economies of scale, customer service, and overall reputation for high quality products (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for more information and risks associated with competition). information applicable to all reportable segments trademarks, patents and licensing agreements while we own certain trademarks and patents, neither our business as a whole, nor any of our segments, is materially dependent upon our ownership of any one trademark, or patent, or group of trademarks or patents. materials sourcing affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets, and components may be more limited, as they are available from one or only a few suppliers and may require regulatory approval before we can use them. prior to the sale of our israel and india api businesses, we had the ability to manufacture and supply certain api for our otc and rx products, which we now source from the companies that have acquired our api businesses. we have been purchasing an increasing number of components and select finished goods rather than manufacturing them because of the availability of goods, economic reasons, temporary production limitations, fda restrictions, sale of our api businesses, and other factors. historically, we have been able to react effectively to situations that require alternate sourcing. should such alternate sourcing be necessary, fda requirements placed on products approved through the anda or nda process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. we believe we have good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of our suppliers and have historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to our volume of purchases (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with materials sourcing). manufacturing and distribution our primary manufacturing facilities are in the u.s. we also have manufacturing facilities in the u.k., belgium, france, germany, austria, israel, mexico, and australia, along with a joint venture in china (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with our manufacturing facilities). we supplement our production capabilities with the purchase of products from outside sources. the capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times for various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of the cough/cold/flu, allergy, or flea and tick seasons, and new product launches. we may utilize available capacity by performing contract manufacturing for other companies. we have logistics facilities in the u.s., israel, mexico, australia, and numerous locations throughout europe. we use contract freight and common carriers to deliver our products. 13 perrigo company plc - item 1 significant customers our primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current global retail drug industry marketplace. walmart is our largest customer and accounted for the following percentage of consolidated net sales: year ended december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 12.8 % 13.0 % 13.0 % sales to walmart are primarily in the chca segment. in addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. the next five largest customers represent 23% of net sales in 2018. the loss of several of these customers could be material. we believe we generally have good relationships with all of our customers (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks associated with customers). environmental we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. we have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws, but do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations have been or will be material to our business. we do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding. while we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term. corporate social responsibility we are committed to doing business in an ethical manner. we have a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where we are located. as reflected in our corporate social responsibility commitment statement available on our website, we remain committed to: helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable health and wellness products; strong corporate governance; complying with regulatory and legal requirements; demonstrating environmental stewardship; continuously improving packaging sustainability; protecting human rights of our global employees and challenging our partners to do the same; diversity of thought, experience and perspective; providing a safe and healthy work environment for our employees; and establishing effective community partnerships. through these efforts, we strive to minimize our impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices, and ensure the welfare of our employees, their families, and the communities in which we operate now and into the future. government regulation and pricing the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. in addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. we believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for related risks). 14 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation united states regulation u.s. food and drug administration the fda has jurisdiction over our rx, otc drug products, api, and infant formula foods. the fda's jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of these products. we are committed to consistently providing our customers with high quality products that adhere to "current good manufacturing practices" ("cgmp") regulations promulgated by the fda. otc and rx pharmaceuticals all facilities where rx and otc products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed for the u.s. market must comply with fda cgmps and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries, states and localities where the facilities are located. all of our drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cgmp regulations. the fda performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. many of our otc products are regulated under the otc monograph system and subject to certain fda regulations. under this system, selected otc drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing. products marketed under the otc monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula, and labeling requirements, including permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients, and dosage levels. it is generally less costly to develop and bring to market a product regulated under the otc monograph system. we also market generic prescription drugs and non-prescription products that have switched from prescription to otc status. prior to commercial marketing, these products require approval by the fda of an anda or nda that provides information on chemistry, manufacturing controls, clinical safety, efficacy and/or bioequivalence, packaging, and labeling. while the development process for these drugs generally requires less time and expense than the development process of a new drug, the size and duration of required studies can vary greatly. prior to the onset of the generic drug user fee amendments of 2012 ( gdufa ), the fda approval of generic drug applications took approximately three to five times longer than approval of innovator drugs. pursuant to gdufa ii, beginning october 1, 2017, year five of the program, the fda pledged to complete a first cycle review on 90% of electronic generic applications within 10 months of submission. under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended ("ffdca") (the hatch-waxman amendments), a company submitting an nda can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for a prescription or otc product if it performs a clinical study that is essential to fda approval. longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs (those designated under section 526 of the ffdca) and drugs under the generating antibiotic incentives now act. during this exclusivity period, the fda cannot approve any andas for a similar or equivalent generic product, which can preclude another party from marketing a similar product during this period. a company may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity if it conducts pediatric studies requested by the fda on the product. this exclusivity can delay both the fda approval and sales of certain products. a company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for certain products. this exclusivity period often follows a patent certification and litigation process whereby the product innovator may sue for infringement. the legal action does not ordinarily result in material damages, but it generally triggers a statutorily mandated delay in fda approval of the anda for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge. the food and drug administration safety and innovation act ("fdasia") was signed into law on july 9, 2012. the law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, fda authority concerning drug shortages, changes to enhance the fda's inspection authority of the drug supply chain, and a limited extension of the 30-month stay provision described above. the fdasia also reduced the time required for fda responses to generic-blocking citizen petitions. we implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of the fdasia, and we monitor facility self- 15 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications. the u.s. government's federal drug supply chain security act ("dscsa") requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. the serialization of all rx products distributed in the u.s. needed to be completed by november 26, 2018, with the requirement for tracking the products commencing on november 27, 2023. requirements for the tracing of products at the lot level through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain went into effect on january 1, 2015 for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. infant formula and foods the fda's center for food safety and applied nutrition is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. the office of nutrition, labeling and dietary supplements ("onlds") has labeling responsibility for infant formula, while the office of food additive safety ("ofas") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. the onlds evaluates whether an infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the ffdca and consults with the ofas regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula. all manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. the infant formula act provides specific requirements for infant formula to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum and, in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients. before marketing a particular infant formula, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation consistent with the fda's labeling, nutrient content, and manufacturer quality control requirements. a manufacturer must notify the fda at least 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. we actively monitor this process and make the appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with recent fda rules regarding cgmp, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records for the production of infant formulas. in addition, the ffdca requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life; to keep records on production, testing, and distribution of each batch of infant formula; to use cgmp and quality control procedures; and to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which may reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. the fda conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula, inspects new facilities during early production runs, and collects and analyzes samples of infant formula. our infant formula manufacturing facilities have been inspected by the fda with no corrective actions required. our infant and toddler foods are subject to the food safety modernization act ("fsma"), which protects the safety of u.s. foods by mandating comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. under fsma, the fda has mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers and is taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of a safety issue. active pharmaceutical ingredients third parties develop and manufacture api for use in certain of our products that are exported to the u.s. and other global markets. before api can be commercialized in the u.s., the manufacturer and/or developer must submit a drug master file ("dmf") that provides the proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. the fda inspects the manufacturing facilities to assess cgmp compliance, and the facilities and procedures must be cgmp compliant before api may be exported to the u.s. the facilities and products are subject to regulation by the applicable regulatory bodies in the place of manufacture as well as the regulatory agency in the country from which the product is exported or imported. for api 16 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation exported to european markets, the manufacturer must submit a european dmf and, where applicable, obtain a certificate of suitability from the european directorate for the quality of medicines. the manufacturing facilities and production procedures for api marketed in europe must meet european union ("eu")-gmp and european pharmacopeia standards. u.s. department of agriculture the organic foods production act enacted under title 21 of the 1990 farm bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic." our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio adhere to the standards of the u.s. department of agriculture ("usda") national organic program for production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio are usda-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for u.s. and canadian markets. u.s. environmental protection agency the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") is the main regulatory body in the united states for veterinary pesticides. the epa's office of pesticide programs is responsible for the regulation of pesticide products applied to animals. all manufacturers of animal health pesticides must show that their products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects to man or the environment as stated in the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. within the u. s., pesticide products that are approved by the epa must also be approved by individual state pesticide authorities before distribution in that state. post-approval monitoring of products is required, with reports provided to the epa and some state regulatory agencies. u.s. drug enforcement administration the u.s. drug enforcement administration ("dea") regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, testosterone, midazolam, and list i chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal controlled substances act ("csa"). the csa and dea regulations impose registration, security, record keeping, reporting, storage, manufacturing, distribution, importation and other requirements upon legitimate handlers under the oversight of the dea. the dea categorizes controlled substances into schedules i, ii, iii, iv, or v, with varying qualifications for listing in each schedule. we are subject to the requirements regarding the controlled substances in schedules ii - v and the list i chemicals. our facilities that manufacture, distribute, import, or export any controlled substances must register annually with the dea. the dea inspects all manufacturing facilities to review security, record keeping, reporting, and handling prior to issuing a controlled substance registration, and it also periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the csa and its regulations. failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements, particularly as manifested in the loss or diversion of controlled substances, can result in enforcement action, such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registration, or the initiation of proceedings to revoke those registrations. in certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal prosecution. we are also subject to state laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of certain products. federal healthcare programs and drug pricing regulation within the u.s., government healthcare insurance and welfare programs such as the medicare and medicaid programs are important third party payers for patients who take our products. these programs include several indirect forms of price regulation applicable to our drug products as a condition for coverage and/or payment for our products and also regulate the amount that pharmacies and other healthcare providers will be paid for our products. specifically, u.s. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of having federal funds being made available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b, enter into three government pricing program agreements: (i) a medicaid rebate agreement with the secretary of health and human services ( hhs ) to pay rebates to state medicaid programs for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program; (ii) a 340b program agreement with the secretary of hhs to provide discounts to certain covered entity safety net healthcare providers; and (iii) a master agreement with the department of veterans affairs ("va") under which discounts are available for purchases by federal agencies. we have such agreements in effect. 17 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation medicaid rebate agreement the medicaid rebate agreement requires the drug manufacturer to remit rebates to each state medicaid agency on a quarterly basis for both fee-for-service and medicaid managed care organization utilization. rebate amounts are based on pricing data reported by the manufacturer to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), including average manufacturer price ("amp") and, in the case of innovator products, best price ("bp"). u.s. law also requires that a company that participates in the medicaid rebate program report average sales price ("asp") information to cms for each calendar quarter for certain categories of drugs that are paid under part b of the medicare program. cms uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under medicare part b. under the medicaid rebate program, the minimum rebate amounts due are as follows: (i) for noninnovator products, in general generic drugs marketed under andas, the rebate amount is 13% of the amp for the quarter; and (ii) for innovator products, in general brand-name products marketed under ndas, the rebate amount is the greater of 23.1% of the amp for the quarter or the difference between such amp and the bp for that same quarter. manufacturers also pay an additional rebate" on innovator drugs where price increases since launch have outpaced inflation. beginning with the first quarter of 2017, an additional rebate is due for noninnovator products, which is calculated somewhat differently from the innovator product additional rebate, but likewise generally applies where and to the extent that a manufacturer's amp increases faster than the rate of inflation. cms issued a final regulation, generally effective april 1, 2016, to implement changes to the medicaid rebate program under the 2010 health reform legislation ( health reform law ) and otherwise to provide program guidance. in addition to guidance concerning rebate program administration matters, the regulation also addressed certain related medicaid reimbursement matters. first, under the health reform law, cms has also begun to use manufacturer amp data to calculate reimbursement limits for pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limits ("fuls"). cms also surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. second, the regulation also directed states to update their medicaid payment methodologies to provide for payment amounts designed to reflect pharmacies' "actual acquisition costs" for drugs, a change from the prior "estimated acquisition" standard. the regulation also required states to provide the government with findings to support their compliance with this standard by april 1, 2017. pricing and rebate calculations are governed by statutory and regulatory requirements that are complex, vary among products and programs, can change over time, and are subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies , and the courts. in the case of the medicaid rebate program, if we become aware of errors in our prior price submissions, or a prior bp submission needs to be updated due to late arriving data, we must resubmit the updated data within specified time frames. such restatements and recalculations increase our cost of compliance with the medicaid rebate program, and corrections can result in an overage or underage of our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. 340b program agreement the 340b drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340b ceiling price for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. the ceiling price is derived from the data the manufacturer reports under the medicaid rebate program and therefore any changes to statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to the medicaid price figures may impact the 340b ceiling price calculation as well. 340b covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the public health service, as well as certain hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. 18 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation master agreement with the department of veterans affairs u.s. law also requires any company that participates in the medicaid rebate program and medicare part b and that wants its covered drugs paid for by certain federal agencies and grantees to enter into a master agreement with the va. under the master agreement, the company must offer its innovator drugs for procurement under the federal supply schedule ( fss ) contracting program, and must charge certain agencies (va, department of defense, public health service and the coast guard) no more than a statutory federal ceiling price ( fcp ). the fcp is calculated based on non-federal average manufacturer price data we submit to the va. fss contracts include extensive disclosure and certification requirements and standard government terms and conditions with which we must comply. consistent with va's interpretation of the master agreement, we have also entered into an agreement to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to tricare beneficiaries by tricare network retail pharmacies. medicare part d coverage gap rebates for certain innovator products, manufacturers must also enter into an agreement with the secretary of hhs to provide rebates with respect to utilization of their products by certain medicare part d beneficiaries while those patients are within the medicare part d benefit coverage gap. manufacturers are not required to submit separate pricing data under this program; the rebate amount is calculated by cms based on part d plans' negotiated prices paid to pharmacies. other price regulation in addition to these technical government pricing regulation programs, drug pricing has come under increasing public scrutiny arising out of general concerns about high drug costs or price increases, and transparency of pricing and discounting practices within the pharmaceutical distribution system. several states, including maryland, nevada, and california, have recently enacted laws that prohibit price gouging, require manufacturers to report certain information concerning price increases exceeding certain amounts, and/or provide advance notice of price increases to certain entities (refer to item 1a. risk factors - risks related to operations for risks related to the above-mentioned programs). other u.s. regulations and organizations we are subject to various other federal, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. other regulatory agencies, organizations, legislation, regulation and laws that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: physician payment sunshine act - this act requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977 ("fcpa") - this act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. federal trade commission ("ftc") - this agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. the ftc considers whether a product's claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. the ftc also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. international organization for standardization ("iso") - the iso standards specify requirements for a quality management system that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. 19 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation our infant formula manufacturing sites are iso 9001-2008 certified for quality management systems. iso inspections are conducted at least annually. united states pharmacopeial convention, inc. ("usp") - the usp is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. by reference, the ffdca incorporates the usp quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product's labeling. usp standards exist for most rx and otc pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. the fda typically requires usp compliance as part of cgmp compliance. health insurance portability and accountability act ("hipaa") - hipaa is a set of regulations designed to protect personal information and data collected and stored in medical records. it established a national standard to be used in all doctors' offices, hospitals and other businesses where personal medical information is stored. in addition to protecting personal medical information, hipaa also gives patients the right to view their medical records and request changes if the data is incorrect. we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. consumer product safety commission ("cpsc") - the cpsc has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. the manufacturer of any product that is subject to any cpsc rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with cpsc requirements. other state agencies - we are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state. regulation outside the u.s. we develop and manufacture products and market third-party manufactured products in regions outside the u.s., including eastern and western europe, israel, mexico, australia, countries in asia, south america, and the middle east, each of which has its own regulatory environment. the majority of our sales outside the u.s. are in the following categories: otc/rx pharmaceuticals, medical devices, dietary supplements and cosmetics. other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: privacy regulations - we are subject to numerous global laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the european union general data protection regulation ( gdpr ). the gdpr introduced more stringent data protection requirements in the eu, as well as substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. the gdpr increased our responsibility and potential liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we have put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the gdpr. transparency laws - in various jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to the laws and regulations aimed at increasing transparency of financial relationships between healthcare professionals and pharmaceutical/medical device manufacturers. these acts require certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. anti-bribery laws - various jurisdictions in which we operate have laws and regulations, including the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the irish criminal justice (corruption offenses) act 2018, aimed at preventing and penalizing corrupt and anticompetitive behavior. european union otc and rx pharmaceuticals the european pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the european parliament and the european commission. this has many benefits, including 20 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation the potential to harmonize standards across the complex european market. however, obtaining regulatory agreement across member states presents complex challenges that can lead to delays in the regulatory process. in the eu, as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of medicinal products are regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the u.s. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any medicinal product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. the registration file relating to any particular product must contain data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and/or references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. between 1995 and 1998, the over-arching regulation that governs medicinal products was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. this revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition procedure ( mrp ), whereby after approval of a marketing authorization by regulatory authorities in the reference member state ( rms ), additional marketing authorizations could be submitted to other concerned member states to obtain a product license. in november 2005, the medicinal product legislation was further revised to introduce the decentralized procedure ( dcp ), whereby marketing authorizations are submitted simultaneously to the rms and select concerned member states. in 2005, the ema also opened up the centralized procedure to sponsors of marketing authorizations for generic medicinal products. unlike the mrp and dcp, the centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization and product labeling across all member states that will allow a sponsor to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the eu countries listed on the application. marketing authorizations and subsequent product licenses are granted to applicants only after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product. in addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer's facilities obtain approval from an eu regulatory authority. the eu has a code of gmp that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. regulatory authorities in the eu may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems and personnel qualifications. we believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject. in 2011, it was first proposed that the eu member states had to transition to the european falsified medicines directive (the directive ). the directive was subsequently written into national law on january 2, 2013. the directive made reference to a delegated act (the delegated act lists the detailed requirements for manufacturers). the delegated act was finalized and published in february 2017, and given a two-year implementation period. the provisions of the directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of api manufactured outside of the eu. the directive required the serialization of all rx and some otc products, similar to the dscsa in the u.s. in the eu, member states regulate the pricing of prescription medicinal products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. this regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. these individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. the implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally tendering refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country. data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, although the application is not uniform. in general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. as these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. the requirements deriving from european pharmacovigilance regulation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors' expectations. pharmacovigilance fee regulation became effective in late 2014 to support health authority assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals. 21 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation once approved, the advertising of pharmaceuticals in the eu is governed by national regulations and guidelines. within certain member states this is overseen by a self-certification process whereas in others national governance bodies approve material prior to release. the wholesale distribution of medicinal products is an important activity in the integrated supply chain management. the quality and the integrity of medicinal products can be affected by a lack of adequate control. to this end, the eu commission has published guidelines on good distribution practice of medicinal products for human use in 2013. the present guidelines are based on articles 84 and 85b(3) of medicinal products for human use directive. medical devices the eu has enacted into law numerous directives and adopted many harmonizing standards pertaining to a wide range of industrial products, including medical devices. medical devices that comply with the requirements of applicable directives are entitled to bear the ce marking of conformity, which indicates that the device conforms to the applicable requirements of the directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout europe. the method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an organization accredited by a member state. assessment by a notified body includes an audit of the manufacturer's quality system and may also include specific testing of the product. this assessment is a prerequisite for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the eu. on may 25, 2017, the eu's medical device regulation (the mdr ) became effective. beginning may 26, 2024, all medical devices sold in the eu will need to be approved under the mdr. notified bodies, which are organizations accredited by a member state, can continue to approve medical devices under the existing medical device directives (the mdds ) until may 26, 2020. beginning on may 27, 2020, notified bodies will no longer be able to approve new medical devices under the mdds or approve notifications of substantial design changes, including changes to labeling/packaging, changes to the manufacturing process, or the addition of new features and functionality, to medical devices that were approved under the mdds. dietary supplements dietary supplements are subject to several regulations that inform the selection of ingredient levels and how products can be described on packaging and in advertising. these regulations include: food supplements directive 2002/46/ec, food information to consumers regulation (eu) no 1169/2011, permitted vitamins and minerals regulation (ec) 1170/2009, food additives regulation (ec) 1333/2008, nutritional &amp; health claims regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, the foods intended for particular nutritional uses directive 2009/39/ec, and regulation (eu) 609/2013. eu rules on nutrition and health claims, which were established by regulation ec 1924/2006, apply to any nutritional or health claim by a manufacturer. the objective of the regulation is to ensure that claims made in food labeling or advertising are clear, accurate and based on scientific evidence. the european food safety authority, an advisory panel to the european commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. an eu register of nutrition and health claims exists to document approved, pending, and rejected claims. cosmetics cosmetic products in the eu market must comply with regulation ec no. 1223/2009. this regulation requires manufacturers to prepare a product safety report prior to placing a cosmetic product in the market. in addition, for each cosmetic product placed in the market, a responsible person must be designated to oversee compliance with the regulation's reporting requirements. commission regulation eu no. 655/2013 establishes the common criteria and justification for claims to be used in the packaging and advertising of cosmetics products. 22 perrigo company plc - item 1 employees as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately 10,600 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 19% were covered by collective bargaining agreements. we consider our employee relations generally good. available information our principal executive offices are located at the sharp building, hogan place, dublin 2, d02 ty74, and our north american base of operations is located at 515 eastern avenue, allegan, michigan 49010. our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. our website address is www.perrigo.com , where we make available free of charge our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). these filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il . item 1a. risk factors risks related to operations we face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies that may threaten the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our products compete against store brand, generic, and branded health and wellness products. competition is also impacted by changes in regulations and government pricing programs that may give competitors an advantage. if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed through loss of customers or increased negative pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our operating results. as a manufacturer of generic versions of brand-name drugs through our chca and rx segments, we experience competition from brand-name drug companies that may try to prevent, discourage or delay the use of generic versions through various measures, including introduction of new branded products, legislative initiatives, changing dosage forms or dosing regimens, regulatory processes, filing new patents or patent extensions, lawsuits, citizens' petitions, and negative publicity prior to introduction of a generic product. in addition, brand-name competitors may lower their prices to compete with generic products, increase advertising, or launch, either through an affiliate or licensing arrangements with another company, an authorized generic at or near the time the first generic product is launched, depriving the generic product of potential market exclusivity. our chca and rx segments may experience increased price competition as other generic companies produce the same product, sometimes for dramatically lower margins in order to gain market share. other generic companies may introduce new drugs and/or drug delivery techniques that make our current products less desirable. a drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity, and thereafter, we may be subject to further competition from generic products and otc pharmaceuticals or biosimilars. the pharmaceutical industry is consolidating. this creates larger competitors and places further pressure on prices, development activities, and customer retention. our animal health category within the chca segment has seen an increase in direct to consumer advertising by several branded competitors, which may increase in the future, and our nutritionals category has experienced increased competition through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail and direct sales. we develop and distribute branded products primarily through our chci segment. we experience competition from other brand-name drug companies, many of which are larger and have more resources to devote to advertising and marketing. these direct competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to 23 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors changes in customer requirements. our current and future competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those offered by us at more competitive prices. our chca and rx segments also experience competition from generic manufacturers, some of whom are significantly larger than we are, who may develop their products more rapidly or complete regulatory approval processes sooner, or may market their products earlier than we do. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market innovative products that meet customer demands, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. our continued growth is due in large part to our ability to develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer requirements for quality, safety, efficacy, and cost effectiveness. continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to our business. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market new products, we could lose market share, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. we maintain a diversified product line to function as a primary supplier for our customers. capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. our future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. in addition, if we fail to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, we may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions. our product margins may decline over time due to our products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice, changes in competition for our existing products, or the introduction of next generation innovative products; therefore, new product introductions are necessary to maintain our current financial condition. if we are unable to continue to create new products, we may lose market share or experience pricing pressure, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. we must prove that the regulated generic drug products in our chca and rx segments are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which may require bioequivalence studies, and in the case of topical products, even more extensive clinical endpoint trials to demonstrate their efficacy. the development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly, and subject to a high degree of business risk. products currently under development may require re-design to meet evolving fda standards, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies, or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges. necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. any of these events may negatively impact our net sales. even if we are successful in developing a product, our customers' failure to launch one of our products successfully, or delays in manufacturing developed products, could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the fda or similar regulatory agency could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain regulatory clearance to launch new formulations into the market, which could negatively impact our future net sales. our chca and chci segments are impacted by changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to adapt to these changes, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. consumer preferences related to health and nutritional concerns may change, which could negatively impact demand for our chca and chci products or cause us to incur additional costs to change our products or product packaging. the future growth and stability of u.s. store brand market share will be impacted, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products. our chca segment sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and consumers return to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products. conversely, while store brand products present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, if economic conditions deteriorate, our chca segment sales could be negatively impacted if consumers forgo obtaining healthcare or reduce their healthcare spending. 24 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our chci segment's success is dependent on the continued growth in demand for its lifestyle products, which include weight management, pregnancy and fertility kits, sleep management, smoking cessation, and eye care. if demand for these products decreases, our chci segment's results of operations would be negatively impacted. our chca customers may request changes in packaging to meet consumer demands, which could cause us to incur inventory obsolescence charges and redesign costs, which in turn would negatively impact our chca segment's results of operations. our infant formula product category within our chca segment is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. our business depends, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. to the extent that private, public, and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products. we could also be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the u.s. federal government through the women, infants and children program, as we do not participate in this program. we operate in highly regulated industries, and any inability to timely meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. we are subject to the regulations of a variety of u.s. and non-u.s. agencies related to the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products as described in detail in item 1. business - government regulation and pricing . changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations in the countries in which we operate could impose restrictions or delays on our ability to manufacture, distribute, sell or market our products, may be difficult or expensive for us to comply with, and may adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and financial condition. below are some of the ways in which government regulation could impact our business and/or financial results: we must obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies in order to manufacture and sell our products in the regions in which we operate. obtaining this approval can be time consuming and costly. there can be no assurance that, in the event we submit an application for a marketing authorization to any global regulatory agency, we will obtain the approval to market a product and/or that we will obtain it on a timely basis. laws unique to the u.s. regulatory framework encourage generic competition by providing eligibility for first generic marketing exclusivity if certain conditions are met. if we are granted generic exclusivity, the exclusivity may be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics; or it is possible that we may forfeit 180-day exclusivity if we do not obtain regulatory approval or begin marketing the product within the statutory requirements. finally, if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of our product and/or possibly reducing our market share. global regulatory agencies regularly inspect our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our third-party suppliers. the failure of one of our facilities, or a facility of one of our third-party suppliers, to comply with applicable laws and regulations may lead to a breach of representations made to our customers, or to regulatory or government action against us related to the products made in that facility. such action could include suspension of or delay in regulatory approvals. if the compliance violations are severe, agencies of the government may initiate product seizure, injunction, recall, suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, or civil or criminal prosecution, thereby impacting the reputation of all of our products. in the u.s., the dscsa requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period beginning on january 1, 2015, for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. similarly, the european commission passed legislation requiring new product packaging safety features' to prevent falsification of medicinal products primarily within the prescription medicines sector. all marketing authorization holders in the eu member states and eea 25 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors members norway, iceland, liechtenstein and switzerland were required to introduce the necessary changes by february 9, 2019 (or risk forfeiting their product licenses). however, manufacturers based out of greece, belgium and italy have an extended timeline until february 9, 2025 to implement the serialization guidelines as they already feature similar requirements on their current drug packages. compliance with the new u.s. and eu electronic pedigree requirements has and will continue to increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. global regulatory agencies highly scrutinize any product application submitted to switch a product from physician prescribed rx to unsupervised otc use by the general public. the expansion of rx-to-otc switches is critical to our future growth. reluctance of regulatory agencies to approve rx-to-otc switches in new product categories could impact that growth. our infant formula products may be subject to barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and dictating the specific content of infant formula products. governments could enhance regulations on the industry aimed at ensuring the safety and quality of dairy products, including, but not limited to, compulsory batch-by-batch inspection and testing for additional safety and quality issues. such inspections and testing may increase our operating costs related to infant formula products. if we are unable to successfully obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances and list i chemicals, we risk having delayed product launches or failing to meet commercial supply obligations. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements for controlled substances and list i chemicals, the dea, or similar regulatory agency, may take regulatory actions, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution of our products, withdrawal of our products from the market, or other penalties. in order to commercially distribute our medical device products in the eu, they need to conform with the requirements of applicable eu directives. the method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an organization accredited by a member state, which includes an audit of the manufacturer's quality system and, for some products, specific product testing. if our products fail to meet the applicable eu directives, then we may not meet our projected growth targets and/or incur fines and penalties. our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, such as restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies. we must also comply with a variety of u.s. laws related to doing business outside of the u.s., including office of foreign asset controls; united nations and eu sanctions; the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act. further changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare, may affect our business and operations. continuing healthcare reforms and related changes to reimbursement methods in and outside of the united states may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. increasing healthcare expenditures have received considerable public attention in many of the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., government programs such as medicare and medicaid, as well as private insurers, have been focused on cost containment. in some markets in the eu and outside the u.s., the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. for example, the recently introduced affordable drug manufacturing act would create a u.s. federal agency tasked with manufacturing certain generic drugs to be offered directly to consumers. it is unclear if this proposed legislation will be enacted, but these or similar legislative or regulatory efforts could place further pricing pressure on our products and could negatively impact our results of operations. 26 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our rx segment in particular could be materially adversely impacted by measures taken by governmental entities or private insurers to restrict patients' access to our products or increase pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases, and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. these actions may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices or may reduce the ability of customers to pay for our products, which could materially negatively impact the rx segment's results of operations. if we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. as described in item 1. business - medicaid rebate agreement , we have entered into various government drug pricing agreements with the u.s. government. there are inherent risks associated with participating in these programs, including the following: by their nature, these programs require us to provide discounts and rebates and therefore reduce our net product revenue. further, because the amounts of these discounts are based on our commercial sales practices and can be adversely affected by both significant discounts and price increases, it is important that we maintain pricing practices that appropriately take into account these government pricing programs. we are required to report pricing data to cms, including amp, on a monthly and quarterly basis and bp and asp on a quarterly basis. we also are required to report quarterly and annual non-famps to the va. if we fail to submit required information on a timely basis, make misrepresentations, or knowingly submit false information to the government as to amp, asp, or bp, we may be liable for substantial civil monetary penalties or subject to other enforcement actions, such as under the false claims act, and cms may terminate our medicaid drug rebate agreement. in that event, u.s. federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs. because many of our products may be subject to medicaid fuls or cms's new medicaid actual acquisition cost payment methodology standard, our products may be subject to reimbursement pressures, and in some cases, those pressures may result from practices outside of our control, including how our competitors price their equivalent products. based on our initial evaluation, we do not believe that the changes have had a material impact on our business. however, states are continuing to evaluate their payment methods, and we cannot predict how the new ful or state payment methodologies will affect our pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers may seek additional discounts in light of reimbursement changes. we also cannot predict how the sharing of ful data and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace in the future. under the 340b program, if we fail to provide required discounts to covered entities, we may be subject to refund claims or civil money penalties under that program. if we inadvertently overcharge the government in connection with our fss contract or tricare agreement, whether due to a misstated fcp or otherwise, we would be required to refund the difference. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in false claims act allegations or potential violations of other laws and regulations. unexpected refunds to the government, and responses to a government investigation or enforcement action, are expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. our calculations and methodologies are subject to review by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that these reviews could result in challenges to our submissions. if we do not comply with those reporting and payment obligations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare programs. 27 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors lack of availability, or significant increases in the cost, of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results. affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. in addition, maintaining good supply relationships is essential to our ongoing operations. see item 1. business - materials sourcing for more information. we maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher-volume or more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of net sales. additionally, global regulatory requirements for obtaining product approvals could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. as a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers could have a negative material impact on our financial results. our infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder, and lactose. our supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality we deem necessary. raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond our control including seasonal and environmental factors, governmental agricultural and environmental policy, and global demand. we cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients necessary to produce infant formula. our products, and the raw materials used to make the products mentioned above, generally have limited shelf lives. our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. we may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. cargo thefts and/or diversions, and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may occur, causing unexpected shortages and harm to our reputation, which may have a material impact on our operations. we rely on third parties to source many of our raw materials, as well as to manufacture sterile, injectable products that we distribute. we maintain a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants, and toxic substances. nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes, or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of the contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. any future recall or removal would result in additional costs and lost revenue, harm our reputation, and may give rise to product liability litigation. changes in regulation could impact the supply of the api and certain other raw materials used in our products. for example, the eu recently promulgated new standards requiring all api imported into the eu be certified as complying with gmp established by the eu. the regulations placed the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries, which led to an api supply shortage in europe as certain governments were not willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api or other raw ingredients could cause us to have to cease manufacture of certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers who are unable to export. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow. 28 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors a disruption at any of our main manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a few locations. see item 1. business - manufacturing and distribution for more information on our significant operations. a significant disruption at one or more of these facilities, whether it be due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, intentional acts of vandalism, war, terrorism, insufficient quality, or pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business. additionally, regulatory authorities routinely inspect all of our manufacturing facilities for cgmp compliance. while our manufacturing sites are cgmp compliant, if a regulatory authority were to identify serious adverse findings not corrected upon follow up inspections, we may be required to issue product recalls, shutdown manufacturing facilities, and take other remedial actions. if any manufacturing facility were forced to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. any breach, disruption or misuse of our information systems, cyber security efforts or personal data could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems to operate our business. our systems, information, and operations, as well as our independent vendor relationships (that support information technology and manufacturing infrastructure), are highly complex. these systems may contain confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property or proprietary business information). the size and complexity of these systems makes them potentially vulnerable to disruption or damage from security breaches, hacking, data theft, denial of service attacks, human error, sabotage, industrial espionage, and computer viruses. such events may be difficult to detect, and once detected, their impact may be difficult to assess and address. cyber attacks have become increasingly common, and we experience phishing, firewall, business email compromise and other types of attacks on our information technology systems. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, including the use of outside advisors, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed, and that could subject us to significant risks, including, without limitation: breaches or disruptions that impair our ability to develop, meet regulatory approval efforts, produce, and/or ship products, take and fulfill orders, and/or collect and make payments on a timely basis; any system issue, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, that damages our reputation and causes us to lose customers, experience lower sales volume, and incur significant liabilities; incurring significant expense to ensure compliance with any required disclosures mandated by the numerous global privacy and security laws and regulations; and any interruption, security breach, or loss, misappropriation, or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information could result in financial, legal, business, or reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we are also subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the national laws implementing the gdpr. the gdpr introduced more stringent data protection requirements in the eu, as well as significant fines for breaches of the data protection rules. the gdpr increased our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we have put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the new eu data protection rules. 29 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors because our business depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of our sales, our business would be adversely affected by a disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' businesses. sales to our largest customer, walmart, comprised approximately 12.8% of our net sales for the year ended december 31, 2018 . while no other customer individually comprised more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. if our relationship with walmart or any of our other significant customers, including the terms of doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on us (refer to item 1. business - significant customers ). many of our customers, which include major global, national, and regional retail drug, supermarket, and mass merchandise chains, major wholesalers, sourcing groups, hospitals, pharmacies, and drug, and grocery stores located primarily in europe, continue to merge or consolidate. such consolidation has provided, and may continue to provide, customers with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures we face. the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. in addition, a number of our customers have instituted sourcing programs limiting the number of suppliers of generic pharmaceutical products carried by that customer. these developments have resulted in heightened pricing pressure on our products, as well as competition among generic drug producers for business from a smaller and more selective customer base. additionally, if we are unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, and/or end their relationships with us. although we have divested our rights to the tysabri royalty stream, we are entitled to additional milestone payments if certain specified thresholds are met , and any negative developments related to tysabri could have a material adverse effect on our receipt of those payments. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we divested our rights to the tysabri royalty stream to royalty pharma for $2.2 billion in cash at closing and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in milestone payments. during the year ended december 31, 2018, tysabri met the 2018 global net sales threshold resulting in a $170.1 million gain recorded in change in financial assets. we received the $250.0 million royalty payment on february 22, 2019. in order for us to receive the 2020 milestone payment, royalty pharma contingent payments for tysabri sales in 2020 must exceed $351.0 million . the fair value of the 2020 milestone payment is $73.2 million as of december 31, 2018. our receipt of the 2020 milestone payment may be negatively impacted if the royalty streams decrease and are insufficient to meet the specified thresholds. given the fact that the 2020 milestone payment is recorded at fair value, if it is determined that tysabri global sales levels do not meet specific thresholds, we would recognize a material charge in the consolidated statement of operations. factors that may have an adverse effect on the tysabri royalty stream include: companies working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis that, if successfully developed, would compete with, or could gain greater acceptance than, tysabri and damage its market share. in february 2016, a competitor's pipeline product, ocrevus , received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda, and this product was launched in 2017. the product is expected to compete with tysabri and have a significant negative impact on the tysabri royalty stream; biogen is the owner of the patents on tysabri . the loss of protection of these patents, such as a patent invalidation, could adversely affect the royalty stream from tysabri . in addition, once the tysabri patents expire, other generic companies may introduce products similar to tysabri that could adversely affect the royalty stream; foreign currency movement, which could have a negative impact on biogen's tysabri sales, thereby reducing the royalties; any negative developments relating to tysabri , such as safety, efficacy, or reimbursement issues, could reduce demand for tysabri ; and 30 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors adverse regulatory or legislative developments could limit or prohibit the sale of tysabri , such as restrictions on the use of tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, which may significantly reduce expected royalty revenue and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. additionally, tysabri sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings on the label, including the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ("pml"), a serious brain infection. the risk of developing pml may increase with prior immunosuppressant use, longer treatment duration, or the presence of certain antibodies. increased incidence of pml could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label, or result in market withdrawal. in addition, the result of ongoing or future clinical trials involving tysabri or other adverse events reported in association with the use of tysabri may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of tysabri . furthermore, there can be no assurance that royalty pharma will pay the 2020 milestone payment even if the specified thresholds are met. we are dependent on the services of certain key members of management. our inability to successfully manage transition, or the failure to attract and retain other key members of management, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. key functions for us include executive managers, operational managers, r&amp;d scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists, and sales/marketing personnel. if we are unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, our future operating results may be adversely impacted. management transition creates uncertainties, and any difficulties we experience in managing such transitions may negatively impact our business. over the last several years, we have experienced a number of changes in our executive leadership. most recently, on october 8, 2018, we announced the appointment of murray s. kessler as president and chief executive officer and member of our board. mr. kessler's appointment followed the resignation of uwe roehrhoff, who had held those roles since his appointment in january 2018. changes in executive management create uncertainty. moreover, changes in our company as a result of management transition could have a disruptive impact on our ability to implement, or result in changes to, our strategy and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products, and may be affected by changing consumer preferences. negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations, or recalls, regardless of whether they involve us or our products. the mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients, or concerns about our products or the materials used in our products, could discourage consumers from buying our products, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported. our products involve risks such as product contamination, spoilage, mislabeling, and tampering that could require us to recall one or more of our products. serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against us that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses, delays in the issuance of governmental approvals for new products, or other governmental penalties, all of which could be detrimental to our reputation and reduce demand for our products. we cannot guarantee that counterfeiting, imitation or other tampering with our products will not occur or that we will be able to detect and resolve it. any counterfeiting or contamination of any products could negatively 31 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors impact our reputation and sales, particularly if counterfeit or imitation products cause death or injury to consumers. many of the brands we acquired from omega pharma invest n.v. ("omega") have european recognition. this recognition is the result of the large investments omega has made in its products over many years. the quality and safety of the products are critical to our business. if we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about safety, quality, efficacy, or similar matters, sentiments toward us and our products could be negatively impacted. our chci segment's financial success is dependent on the success of its brands, and the success of these brands can suffer if marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers, and the performance of the segment may be negatively impacted if spending on such plans and initiatives does not generate the returns we anticipate. in addition, given the association of individual products within the commercial network of our chci segment, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of other products, thereby potentially hurting our financial results. powdered infant formula products are not sterile. all of our infant formula products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. depending on the product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw materials, the processing and packaging of food products, and the use and handling by consumers, hospital personnel, and healthcare professionals. in the event that certain of our infant formula products are found or alleged to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not under our control, our reputation and our infant formula product category sales could be materially adversely affected. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputation damage. the company and our employees increasingly utilize social media as a means of internal and external communication. to the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. a violation of such guidelines may damage our reputation as well as cause potential lawsuits and adversely affect our operating activities. our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. negative posts or comments about us, store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation and could adversely affect the price of our securities. in addition, negative posts or comments about our products could result in increased pharmacovigilance reporting requirements, which may give rise to liability if we fail to fully comply with such requirements. 32 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of our management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. some of the factors that may impact our quarterly results include the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu and allergy seasons, the flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by us and our competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in accounting pronouncements, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by our customers, and the timing of retailer promotional programs. these and other factors may result in significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. we may not be able to sustain or improve operating results in our business segments. we continue to experience a significant year-over-year reduction in pricing in our rx segment due to competitive pressures. this softness in pricing is attributable to various factors, including increased focus from customers to capture supply chain productivity savings, competition in specific products, and consolidation of certain customers. while in the fourth quarter of 2018, we experienced a year-over-year decrease in pricing pressure, we expect softness in pricing to continue to impact the segment for the foreseeable future. the chci segment has been positively impacted by market dynamics in countries such as the nordics, italy, and portugal offset by softness in certain brand categories in france and germany, as well as by unfavorable foreign currency impacts primarily in the u.k. related to brexit. the chci segment has restructured its approach to addressing these markets including by: (1) implementing of a brand prioritization strategy to address these market dynamics, with an objective to balance the cost of advertising and promotional investments with expected contributions from category sales, and (2) restructuring its sales force in each of these markets to more effectively serve customers. the combination of these actions is expected to improve the segment's focus on higher value otc products, reduce selling costs and improve operating margins in the segment. we continue to experience a reduction in pricing expectations within our chca segment, primarily in the cough/cold, animal health, and analgesics categories due to various factors, including focus from customers to capture supply chain productivity savings and competition in specific product categories. we expect this pricing environment to continue to impact our chca segment for the foreseeable future. there can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience challenges related to our segments, and these challenges could have a material impact on our business, cash flows, and results of operations or result in impairment charges, and the market value of our ordinary shares and/or debt securities may decline. we may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in the normal course of business, we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions and divestitures. these transactions are accompanied by a number of risks. many of these risks are beyond our control, and any one of them could result in increased cost, decreased net sales and diversion of management's time and energy, any or all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. acquisitions one of our strategies is inorganic growth through the acquisition of products and companies that we expect will benefit the company. this strategy comes with a number of financial, managerial, and operational risks. we may not realize the benefits of an acquisition because of integration and other challenges, including, but not limited to the following: difficulty involved with managing the expanded operations of the respective parties, as well as identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities; uncertainties involved in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of the respective parties, as well as identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities of acquisition 33 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors targets; unanticipated changes in the business, industry, market or general economic conditions different from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction; difficulties due to a lack of, or limited experience in, any new product or geographic markets we enter; inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies, or return on investment, from an acquisition in the amounts or on the time frame anticipated; substantial demands on our management, operational resources, technology, and financial and internal control systems, which could lead to dissatisfaction and potential loss of key customers, management, or employees; integration activities that may detract attention from our day-to-day business, and substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts; and difficulties, restrictions or increased costs associated with raising future capital in connection with an acquisition may impact our liquidity, credit ratings and financial position, thereby making it more difficult, restrictive or expensive to raise future capital. in addition, the issuance of equity to pay a portion of the purchase price for an acquisition would dilute our existing shareholders. divestitures we may evaluate potential divestiture opportunities with respect to portions of our business (including specific assets or categories of assets) from time to time, and may proceed with a divestiture opportunity if and when we believe it is consistent with our business strategy and initiatives. any future divestitures could expose us to significant risk, including without limitation: our ability to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and personnel to any purchaser; fees for legal and transaction-related services; diversion of management resources; and loss of key personnel and reduction in revenue. if we do not realize the expected strategic, economic or other benefits of any divestiture transaction, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the plan to separate our rx business is contingent upon a number of conditions, is subject to change in form or timing, may not achieve the intended benefits, and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. on august 9, 2018, we announced a plan to separate our rx business which, when completed, will enable us to focus on expanding our consumer-focused businesses. we have begun the preparations for the separation, which may include a possible sale, spin-off, merger or other form of separation. while we are currently targeting to complete the separation by the end of 2019, the form of separation may delay the completion of the separation beyond this date, however, there can be no assurances as to the form or timing of a separation or if a separation will be consummated. the proposed separation, regardless of form, will be a complex endeavor and could be affected by unanticipated developments and other factors, such as the impact of the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act ("u.s. tax act"), other tax reform and related existing or future regulations (which may be retroactive), the potential impact of the noa issued by irish revenue on our financial condition, existing interdependencies with our manufacturing and shared-service operations, the outcome of the price-fixing claims brought against us, results of other strategic initiatives, and changes in market conditions, any of which could change, delay or prevent the achievement of the strategic and financial objectives of the separation. in addition, the separation of the rx business could impact our ability to retain key employees, comply with existing debt arrangements, maintain our credit ratings and raise future capital. even if the separation is completed, we may not achieve the anticipated operational, financial, strategic or other benefits of the separation. after the separation, the combined value and financial performance of the 34 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors company and rx business may not equal the value and financial performance of the company had the separation not occurred. in connection with the proposed separation, we anticipate incurring significant preparation costs, excluding restructuring expenses and transaction costs, in the range of $45.0 million to $80.0 million depending on the final structure of a transaction, with a spin-off resulting in costs at the higher end of this range. in addition, completion of the separation will require a significant amount of management time and effort, which may disrupt our business or otherwise divert management's attention from other aspects of our business, including our other strategic initiatives, possible organic or inorganic growth opportunities, and customer and vendor relationships. any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. our business could be negatively affected by the performance of our collaboration partners and suppliers. we have entered into strategic alliances with partners and suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, or components of our products in various markets. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations. there is a risk that our investments in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. while we believe our relationships with our partners and suppliers generally are successful, disputes, conflicting priorities or regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefit of the collaboration (refer to item 8. note 17 ). a failure or inability of our partners or suppliers to fulfill their collaboration obligations, or the occurrence of any of the risks above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject us to losses and may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we have recorded significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of previous acquisitions, which could become impaired and lead to material charges in the future. as of the year ended december 31, 2018 , we recorded goodwill, definite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $136.7 million , $49.6 million and $27.7 million primarily in our chca segment, respectively, and $8.7 million of impairment charge related to certain in-process research &amp; development ("ipr&amp;d") assets in our chca segment. as of the year ended december 31, 2017, we recorded definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $19.7 million related to developed product technology/formulation and product rights, and distribution and license agreements primarily in our rx segment and $12.7 million of impairment charge related to certain ipr&amp;d assets primarily in our rx segment. as of the year ended december 31, 2016, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $1.1 billion related to our specialty sciences, branded consumer healthcare-rest of world, bch-belgium, and animal health reporting units and indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $1.5 billion related to trademarks, trade names and brands, developed product technology/formulation and product rights, distribution and license agreements, and supply agreements. we perform an impairment analysis on intangible assets subject to amortization when there is an indication that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicates a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible asset, and definite-lived intangible asset impairments are recorded in impairment charges on the consolidated statement of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , the net book value of our goodwill and intangible assets were $4.0 billion and $2.9 billion , respectively (refer to item 8. note 4 ). 35 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors there can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives will achieve their intended effects. we are in the process of implementing certain initiatives designed to increase operational efficiency and improve our return on invested capital by globalizing our supply chain through global shared service arrangements, streamlining our organizational structure, making key executive employee changes, performing a strategic portfolio review, and disposing of certain assets. furthermore, we have developed a new vision for the company as we transition into a consumer-focused company. we believe these initiatives will enhance our net sales, operating margins, and earnings; however, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will produce the anticipated benefits. any delay or failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our projected results. while we have remediated previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to our income tax process, we may identify other material weaknesses in the future. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls on a periodic basis and publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and related matters in accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. during the years ended december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2017, we identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that related to the matters associated with our income tax process, which have been remediated. while we have remediated those previously identified material weaknesses, there can be no assurances that our controls will remain adequate. any failure to implement or maintain required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, including retention of key employees, could result in additional material weaknesses or material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. any new misstatement could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, reduce our ability to obtain financing or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. global risks our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. we manufacture, source raw materials, and sell our products in a number of countries. the percentage of our business outside the u.s. has been increasing. we are subject to risks associated with international manufacturing and sales, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; problems related to markets with different cultural biases or political systems; possible difficulties in enforcing agreements; longer payment cycles and shipping lead-times; difficulties obtaining export or import licenses; changes to u.s. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the u.s., including but not limited to, goods imported from mexico; and imposition of withholding or other taxes. additionally, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering import/export regulations. to the extent that we are unable to successfully defend against an audit or review, we may be required to pay assessments, penalties, and increased duties. certain of our facilities operate in a special purpose sub-zone established by the u.s. department of commerce foreign trade zone board, which allows us certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. if the foreign trade zone board were to revoke the sub-zone designation or limit our use, we could be subject to increased duties. although we believe that we conduct our business in compliance with applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and economic sanctions laws, if we are found to not be in compliance with such laws or other anti-corruption laws, 36 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. this risk increases in locations outside of the u.s., particularly in locations that have not previously had to comply with the fcpa, u.k. bribery act, the irish criminal justice (corruption offenses) act 2018, and similar laws. we operate in jurisdictions that could be affected by economic and political instability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations and supply partners could be affected by economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities, unstable governments and legal systems, and inter-governmental disputes. we have significant operations in israel, which has experienced varying degrees of hostility in recent years. doing business in israel and certain other regions involves the following risks: certain countries and international organizations have refused to do business with companies with israeli operations. we are also precluded from marketing our products to certain countries due to u.s. and israeli regulatory restrictions. international economic sanctions and boycotts of our products could negatively impact our sales and ability to export our products. our facilities in israel are within a conflict zone. if terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to our facilities, our business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, we would need to obtain prior regulatory agency approval for a change in manufacturing site. the u.s. department of state and other governments have at times issued advisories regarding travel to certain countries in which we do business. as a result, regulatory agencies have, at various times, curtailed or prohibited their inspectors from traveling to inspect facilities. if these inspectors are unable to inspect our facilities, the regulatory agencies could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities. our international operations may be subject to interruption due to travel restrictions, war, terrorist acts, and other armed conflicts. also, further threats of armed hostilities in certain countries could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the cancellation of contracts or the loss of assets. these events could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations. the uk held a referendum on june 23, 2016 on its membership in the eu. a majority of uk voters voted to exit the eu ( brexit ). the uk is scheduled to leave the eu on march 29, 2019, and negotiations are taking place to determine the future terms of the uk's relationship with the eu, including the terms of withdrawal, the terms of future trading and relations and any potential transition periods. brexit has created significant instability and volatility in the global financial markets, has led to significant weakening of the british pound compared to the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and could adversely affect european or worldwide economic or market conditions. although it is unknown what the future trading terms with the eu will be, they may impair the ability of our operations in the eu to transact business in the future in the uk, and similarly the ability of our uk operations to transact business in the future in the eu. specifically, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the uk and eu countries, increased restrictions on freedom of movement for employees, and increased regulatory complexities. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. we are actively monitoring brexit updates from a government and regulatory perspective. we are preparing for a hard (no deal) brexit," which is intended to ensure we meet both applicable eu and uk regulatory requirements as well as stock-builds to secure supply continuity. there can be no assurances, however, that these preparations will be sufficient or that the final exit terms will be as we anticipate. any of the above mentioned effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, operations, and financial results. while the challenging global economic environment has not had a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources, impact our ability to obtain financing, or decrease the value of our assets. 37 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors the challenging economic conditions have also impacted the movements in exchange rates, which have experienced significant recent volatility. uncertainty regarding the future growth rates between countries, the influence of central bank actions, and the changing political environment globally may contribute to continued high levels of exchange rate volatility, which could have an adverse impact on our results. our customers could be adversely impacted if u.s. economic conditions worsen. our chca segment does not advertise its products like national brand companies and thus is largely dependent on retailer promotional activities to drive sales volume and increase market share. if our customers do not have the ability to invest in store brand promotional activities, our sales may suffer. additionally, while we actively review the credit worthiness of our customers and suppliers, we cannot fully predict to what extent they may be negatively impacted by slowing economic growth. the international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates. we report our financial results in u.s. dollars. however, a significant portion of our net sales, assets, indebtedness and other liabilities, and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. these currencies include, among others, the euro, indian rupee, british pound, canadian dollar, israeli shekel, australian dollar, and mexican peso. the addition of omega, a euro-denominated business, that represents a significant portion of our net sales and earnings, and a substantial portion of our net assets, has significantly increased our exposure to changes in the euro/u.s. dollar exchange rate. approximately 35% of omega's sales are in other foreign currencies, with the majority of the product costs for these markets denominated in euros. in addition, several emerging market economies are particularly vulnerable to the impact of rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, weaker oil and other commodity prices, and large external deficits. while some of these jurisdictions are showing signs of stabilization or recovery, others continue to experience levels of stress and volatility. risks in one country can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in another country or countries. as a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our operations. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. in addition, we may also be exposed to credit risks in some of those markets. we may implement currency hedges or take other actions intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are not successful in mitigating the effects of changes in exchange rates on our business, any such changes could materially impact our results. risks related to litigation and insurance we are or may become involved in lawsuits and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings. we may become involved in lawsuits arising from a wide variety of commercial, manufacturing, development, marketing, sales and other business-related matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, pricing, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising, unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product quality/recall, environmental remediation, securities law, disclosure, and regulatory issues. litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. we intend to vigorously defend against any lawsuits, however, we cannot predict how the cases will be resolved. adverse results in the cases could result in substantial monetary judgments. no assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the future (refer to item 8. note 16 ). we may be subject to liability if our products violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where our products are distributed. the successful assertion of product liability or other product-related claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, and we could incur substantial legal expenses. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation may suffer. we may face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. while we do not have any 38 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors material remediation liabilities currently outstanding, we may in the future face liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under or in our currently or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility that we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. the actual or alleged presence of these substances, or the failure to remediate them, could have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on our ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. there can be no assurance that environmental liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on us. see item 1. business - information applicable to all reportable segments - environmental for more information . our chci segment regularly makes advertising claims regarding the effectiveness of its products, which we are responsible for defending. an unsuccessful defense of product-related claims could result in potentially significant monetary damages and substantial legal expenses. even if a claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation could suffer. additionally, we may be the target of claims asserting violations of securities fraud and derivative actions, or other litigation proceedings in the future. increased scrutiny on pricing practices and competition in the pharmaceutical industry, including antitrust enforcement activity by government agencies and class action litigation, may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. there has been increased scrutiny regarding sales, marketing, and pricing practices in the pharmaceutical industry from both government agencies and the media, including allegations of price gouging and/or collusion. this includes recent u.s. congressional inquiries and hearings in connection with the investigation of specific price increases by several pharmaceutical companies, proposed and enacted legislation seeking greater transparency in drug pricing, and criminal investigations regarding drug pricing. u.s. federal and state prosecutors have issued subpoenas to a number of pharmaceutical companies seeking information about their drug pricing practices, and several class action lawsuits have been filed that allege price-fixing with respect to various pharmaceutical products. in december 2016, the antitrust division of the u.s. department of justice (the antitrust division ) filed criminal charges against two former executives from a competitor of the company for their roles in conspiracies to fix prices, rig bids and allocate customers for certain generic drugs. on may 2, 2017, we disclosed that search warrants were executed at a number of perrigo facilities and other locations in connection with the antitrust division's ongoing investigation related to drug pricing in the pharmaceutical industry. although no charges have been brought to date against perrigo or any of our current employees (or, to the best of our knowledge, former employees), we take the investigation very seriously. if criminal antitrust charges are filed involving perrigo, we would incur substantial litigation and other costs, and could face substantial monetary penalties, injunctive relief, negative publicity and damage to our reputation. regardless of the ultimate outcome, responding to those charges would divert management's time and attention and could impair our operations. further, we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory changes may result from the ongoing public scrutiny of our industry, what the nature of any such changes might be, or what impact they may have on perrigo. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and reputation. while we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, any adverse decision could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. we are cooperating with the government's investigation and are committed to operating our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and the highest standards of ethical conduct. we do not condone, and will not countenance, any violation of these standards by our employees, agents, and business partners. in addition, we have been named as a co-defendant with certain other generic pharmaceutical manufacturers in a number of class action lawsuits alleging that we and other manufacturers of the same product engaged in anti-competitive behavior to fix or raise the prices of certain drugs starting, in some instances, as early 39 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors as june 2013 (refer to item 8. note 16 ). while we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, any adverse decision could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. publishing earnings guidance subjects us to risks, including increased stock volatility, that could lead to potential lawsuits by investors. because we publish earnings guidance, we are subject to a number of risks. actual results may vary from the guidance we provide investors from time to time, such that our stock price may decline following, among other things, any earnings release or guidance that does not meet market expectations. it has become increasingly commonplace for investors to file lawsuits against companies following a rapid decrease in market capitalization. we have been in the past, and may be in the future, named in these types of lawsuits. these types of lawsuits can be costly and divert management attention and other resources away from our business, regardless of their merits, and could result in adverse settlements or judgments, which could have a material impact on the company. third-party patents and other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to bring new products to market and may subject us to potential legal liability, causing us to incur significant costs. the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. as a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products, the ability of our chca , chci, and rx segments to bring new products to market is often limited by third-party patents or proprietary rights and regulatory exclusivity periods awarded on products. launching new products prior to resolution of intellectual property issues may result in us incurring legal liability if the related litigation is later resolved against us. the cost and time for us to develop prescription and rx-to-otc switch products is significantly greater than the rest of the new products that we introduce. any failure to bring new products to market in a timely manner could cause us to lose market share, and our operating results could suffer. we could have to defend against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. this could require us to incur substantial expense and could divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel. if we are found to have infringed on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or manufacture some products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. additionally, if we choose to settle a dispute through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products. at times, our chca or rx segments may seek approval to market drug products before the expiration of patents for those products, based upon our belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by our products. in these cases we may face significant patent litigation. depending upon a complex analysis of a variety of legal and commercial factors, we may, in certain circumstances, elect to market a generic pharmaceutical product while litigation is pending, before any court decision, or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending, known as an "at risk" launch. the risk involved in an "at risk" launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to the patent holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic version of the product. by electing to proceed in this manner, we could face substantial damages if we receive an adverse final court decision. in the case where a patent holder is able to prove that our infringement was "willful" or "exceptional," under applicable law, the patent holder may be awarded up to three times the amount of its actual damages or we may be required to pay attorneys' fees. 40 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors the success of certain of our products depends on the effectiveness of measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights and patents. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. we have been issued patents covering certain of our products, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries. any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by us may not provide us with any significant competitive advantages for our products or may even be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using, or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees, and consultants. if these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of the insurance we maintain could adversely impact our financial condition. to protect the company against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs, including property, general, product, and directors' and officers' liability. we may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. we are self-insured when insurance is not available or not available at reasonable premiums. risks associated with insurance plans include: insurance costs could increase significantly, or the availability of insurance may decrease, either of which could adversely impact our financial condition; deductible or retention amounts could increase or our coverage could be reduced in the future and to the extent losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we maintained; insurance may not be available to us at an economically reasonable cost or our insurance may not adequately cover our liability in connection with claims brought against us; and as our business inherently exposes us to claims, we may become subject to claims for which we are not adequately insured. unanticipated payment of a large claim may have a material adverse effect on our business. tax related risks the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs") may not agree with the conclusion that we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. although we are incorporated in ireland, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("code"). for u.s. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. for perrigo company plc to be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the code, either (i) the former stockholders of perrigo company must own (within the meaning of section 41 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors 7874 of the code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our stock by reason of holding shares in perrigo company (the "ownership test") as of the closing of the elan acquisition or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in ireland after the elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). upon our acquisition of elan, perrigo company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of our shares. as a result, we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, we cannot assure that the irs will agree with our position that the ownership test is satisfied. there is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test. an unfavorable determination on perrigo company plc's treatment as a foreign corporation under section 7874 of the code could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that section 7874 of the code likely will limit our and our u.s. affiliates' ability to use their u.s. tax attributes, such as net operating losses, to offset certain u.s. taxable income, if any, generated by the elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the elan acquisition (refer to item 8, note 14 ). changes to tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, any of the following could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes: changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the code, the irs treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other irs guidance; and legislative proposals aimed at expanding the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence. since our acquisition of elan in 2013, the united states treasury ("treasury") and the irs have issued a number of notices and proposed, temporary, and final regulations, including most recently, on july 12, 2018, new final regulations addressing various aspects of section 7874 and related provisions, including guidance to address certain specific post-inversion transactions. all of the notices and regulations are either effective for dates after the elan acquisition occurred or do not provide guidance that we believe would have a material impact on the treatment of our status as a foreign corporation. the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ), which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles relating to base erosion and profit shifting ("beps"). these changes are being adopted and implemented by many of the countries in which we do business and may increase our taxes in these countries. in addition, the european commission has launched several initiatives to implement beps actions including an anti-tax avoidance directive ("atad") and having a common (consolidated) corporate tax base. it is unclear at present if and how these initiatives will be implemented by the eu countries. specifically, ireland has implemented so-called "controlled foreign corporation legislation" effective january 1, 2019 as required by the atad measures. ireland has embarked on a consultation process to further implement the atad i &amp; ii directives and beps related measures. other eu countries have implemented or are contemplating tax legislation to implement beps actions, similar to the ireland legislation, including tax legislation enacted by the french parliament in december 2018. the shape and implementation of this reform may adversely impact our consolidated effective tax rate. the recent announcement from the oecd inclusive framework group that they plan to develop further proposals to the existing international tax rules that could go beyond the so-called arm's length principle may further adversely impact our consolidated effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted the u.s. tax act. the u.s. tax act includes a number of significant changes to existing u.s. tax laws that impact us. these changes include a corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21%, full expensing of fixed assets placed in service in 2018 and the elimination or reduction of certain u.s. deductions and credits, including limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation. the u.s. tax act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system. this modified territorial system includes, among other items, base erosion prevention measures 42 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors which have the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our u.s. owned foreign corporations to u.s. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) and the establishment of a minimum tax on certain payments from our u.s. subsidiaries to related foreign persons as base erosion and anti-abuse tax ( beat ). these changes became effective in 2018. the u.s. tax act also includes a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated u.s. owned foreign corporations' previously untaxed foreign earnings ( transition toll tax ). the transition toll tax can be paid over an eight-year period starting in 2018 and will not accrue interest. based on the 2017 u.s. federal income tax return filed by the company, the transition toll tax was paid in full with the 2017 u.s. federal income tax return. during 2018, treasury and the irs issued various forms of guidance, including notices of proposed rule making and proposed treasury regulations, implementing and clarifying aspects of the u.s. tax act and other related topics, such as: transition toll tax; beat; gilti; foreign tax credit computations; the full expensing of fixed assets placed in service in 2018; interest expense limitations under section 163(j); deductibility of interest and/or royalty payments made by u.s. corporate taxpayers to foreign related parties in so-called hybrid mismatch arrangements under section 267a; and the limitation of deductions for key executive compensation as determined under section 162(m). during the year ended december 31, 2018, we considered and evaluated treasury and irs guidance issued as described above and reflected certain changes in our income tax provision for 2018. in 2019, treasury and the irs are expected to issue final tax regulations ( final regulations ) on certain code sections that were introduced by, or changed as a result of, the u.s. tax act. we will record the tax effects of the final regulations in the quarter in which they are issued. our preliminary estimate of the impact of the u.s. tax act (including the transition toll tax) was recorded as of december 31, 2017 and was subject to the finalization of management's analysis related to certain matters, such as developing interpretations of the provisions of the u.s. tax act, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain u.s. owned foreign subsidiaries and the filing of our tax returns. u.s. treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the u.s. tax act required further adjustments and changes in our 2017 estimates, which did not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. the final determination of the impact of the u.s. tax act (including the transition toll tax) was completed in 2018, as required by sab 118 (refer to item 8, note 14 ). any of these changes could have a prospective or retroactive application to us, our shareholders, and affiliates, and could adversely affect us by changing our effective tax rate and limiting our ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. our effective tax rate or cash tax payment requirements may change in the future, which could adversely impact our future results from operations. a number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rate or cash tax payment requirements, which may impact our future results and cash flows from operations (refer to item 8, note 14 ). these factors include, but are not limited to: changes to tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (including additional proposals for fundamental international tax reform in a number of jurisdictions globally); income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; 43 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors adjustments to our interpretation of transfer pricing standards, treatment or characterization of intercompany transactions, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and divestitures of current operations. the resolution of uncertain tax positions could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit or any related litigation could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made and in future periods after the determination. in addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments. we are currently involved in several audit and adjustment related disputes, including litigation, with the irs. these include litigation regarding our 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 tax years, as well as proposed audit adjustments related to litigation costs and transfer pricing positions related to athena neurosciences, inc. ( athena ), a subsidiary of elan acquired in 1996, for the 2011, 2012 and 2013 tax years. in addition, on october 31, 2018, we received an audit finding letter from irish revenue for the years under audit 2012-2013. the audit finding letter relates to the tax treatment of the 2013 sale of the tysabri intellectual property and other assets related to tysabri to biogen idec from elan pharma. the consideration paid by biogen to elan pharma took the form of an upfront payment and future contingent royalty payments. irish revenue issued a noa on november 29, 2018 which assesses an irish corporation tax liability against elan pharma in the amount of 1,636 million , not including interest or any applicable penalties. we disagree with this assessment and believe that the noa is without merit and incorrect as a matter of law. we filed an appeal of the noa on december 27, 2018 and will pursue all available administrative and judicial avenues as may be necessary or appropriate. as part of this strategy to pursue all available administrative and judicial avenues, elan pharma was, on february 25, 2019, granted leave by the irish high court to seek judicial review of the issuance of the noa. the judicial review filing is based on our belief that elan pharma's legitimate expectations as a taxpayer have been breached, not on the merits of the noa itself. if perrigo is ultimately successful in the judicial review proceedings, the noa will be invalidated and irish revenue will not be able to re-issue the noa. the proceedings before the tax appeals commission has been stayed until a decision on the judicial review application has been made, which could take up to, or more than, a year. no payment of any amount related to this assessment is required to be made, if at all, until all applicable proceedings have been completed, which could take a number of years. however, while we believe our position to be correct, there can be no assurance of an ultimate favorable outcome, and if the matter is ultimately resolved unfavorably it would have a material adverse impact on perrigo, including on liquidity and capital resources. in addition, going forward, uncertainty regarding the future outcome of the noa may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and strategy, including our plan to separate our rx business. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. unfavorable developments in or resolutions of matters such as those discussed above could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods (refer to item 8, note 14 for further information related to uncertain tax positions and ongoing tax audits and item 8. note 16 for further information related to legal proceedings). 44 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors risks related to capital and liquidity our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategic initiatives. we anticipate that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and borrowings available under our credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. our business requires continuous capital investments, and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. additionally, our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect the business. at december 31, 2018 , our total indebtedness outstanding was $3.2 billion . our senior credit facilities, the agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. we also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. if we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities, agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. any default under our senior credit facilities or agreements governing our senior notes or other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. if our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay or refinance our debt or obtain sufficient new financing. downgrades to our credit ratings may limit our access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs on current or future financing, including via trade payables with vendors. customers' inclination to purchase goods from us may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of our credit ratings. there are various maturity dates associated with our credit facilities, senior notes, and other debt facilities. there is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. further, there is no assurance that future refinancing or renegotiation of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt facilities, or additional agreements will not have materially different or more stringent terms (refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). we cannot guarantee that we will buy back our ordinary shares pursuant to our announced share repurchase plan or that our share repurchase plan will enhance long-term shareholder value. in october 2015, the board of directors approved a three -year share repurchase plan of up to $2.0 billion (the "2015 authorization"). following the expiration of our 2015 authorization, in october 2018, our board of directors authorized up to $1.0 billion of share repurchases with no expiration date (the "2018 authorization"), subject to the board of directors' approval of the pricing parameters and amount that may be repurchased under each specific share repurchase program. through december 31, 2018, we repurchased a total of 7.8 million ordinary shares through the 2015 authorization. the specific timing and amount of buybacks under the 2018 authorization, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our ordinary shares, the nature of other investment opportunities and the availability of distributable reserves of perrigo company plc. buybacks of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase plan could affect the market price of our ordinary shares or increase their volatility. additionally, our share repurchase plan could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. although our share repurchase plan is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so, and short-term share price fluctuations could reduce the plan's effectiveness. 45 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors any additional shares we may issue could dilute your ownership in the company. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders, and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by the articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of a special resolution. such disapplication of these preemption rights can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. at our annual general meeting of shareholders in may 2018, our shareholders authorized our board of directors to issue up to a maximum of 33% of our issued ordinary capital on that date for a period of 18 months from the passing of the resolution. at the annual general meeting, our shareholders also authorized our board of directors to issue ordinary shares on a nonpreemptive basis in the following circumstances: (i) an issuance of shares in connection with any rights issuance and (ii) an issuance of shares for cash, if the issuance is limited to up to 5% of the company's issued ordinary share capital (with the possibility of issuing an additional 5% of the company's issued ordinary share capital provided the company uses it only in connection with an acquisition or a specified capital investment that is announced contemporaneously with the issuance, or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issuance), bringing the total acceptable limit to 10% of the company's issued ordinary share capital. once these authorizations expire, we cannot provide any assurance that they will be renewed by the shareholders at subsequent annual general meetings, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. we are incorporated in ireland; irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014 (the "act"). the act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification of directors. under irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. as a result, shareholders of irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax, irish income tax, and capital acquisitions tax. there is no treaty between ireland and the u.s. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in ireland, the judgment must be (i) for a definite sum, (ii) provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and (iii) final and conclusive. an irish high court may exercise its right to refuse to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if it violated irish public policy, if it is in breach of natural justice, or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. an irish high court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. judgments of u.s. courts of liabilities predicated upon u.s. federal securities laws may not be enforced by irish high courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in ireland. it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction than if we were a u.s. company because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under irish law. 46 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors irish law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. with respect to defending unwanted takeover proposals and may give our board of directors less ability to control negotiations with hostile offerors. we are subject to the irish takeover panel act, 1997, takeover rules, 2013. under those irish takeover rules, the board of directors is not permitted to take any action that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once the board of directors has received an approach that may lead to an offer or has reason to believe that such an offer is or may be imminent, subject to certain exceptions. potentially frustrating actions such as (i) the issuance of ordinary shares, options or convertible securities, (ii) material acquisitions or disposals, (iii) entering into contracts other than in the ordinary course of business, or (iv) any action, other than seeking alternative offers, which may result in frustration of an offer, are prohibited during the course of an offer or at any earlier time during which the board of directors has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent. these provisions may give the board of directors less ability to control negotiations with hostile offerors and protect the interests of holders of ordinary shares than would be the case for a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares in the future. a number of factors may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future, including: our ability to receive cash dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries; compliance with applicable laws and debt covenants; our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant; and the availability of perrigo company plc's distributable reserves, being profits of the company available for distribution to shareholders. under irish law, distributable reserves means the accumulated realized profits so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less accumulated realized losses so far as not previously written off in a reduction or a reorganization of capital duly made. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made if, at that time, perrigo company plc's's net assets are not, or would not be after giving effect to such distribution or dividend, equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of perrigo company plc's called-up share capital plus undistributable reserves. while we currently expect to continue paying dividends and operating our share repurchase plan, significant changes in our business or financial condition such as asset impairments, sustained operating losses and the selling of assets, could impact the amount of distributable reserves available to us. we could seek to create additional distributable reserves through a reduction in perrigo company plc's share premium, which would require 75% shareholder approval and the approval of the irish high court. the irish high court's approval is a matter for the discretion of the court, and there can be no assurances that such approval would be obtained. in the event that additional distributable reserves are not created in this way, dividends, share repurchases or other distributions would generally not be permitted under irish law until such time as perrigo company plc has created sufficient distributable reserves in our audited statutory financial statements as a result of its business activities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risk we are a global company with operations primarily throughout north america, europe, australia, mexico, and israel. we transact business in each location's local currency and in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposures to changes in exchange rates. our largest exposure is the movement of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro. in addition, our u.s. operations continue to expand their export business, primarily in canada, china, and europe, and are subject to fluctuations in the respective exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. a large portion of the sales of our israeli operations is in foreign currencies, primarily u.s. dollars and euros, while these operations largely incur costs in their local currency. further, a portion of biogen's global sales of tysabri are denominated in local currencies, creating exposures to changes in exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar and thereby impacting the amount of u.s. dollar royalties necessary to achieve our contingent payment threshold in 2020. due to different sales and cost structures, certain segments experience a negative impact and certain segments a positive impact as a result of changes in exchange rates. we estimate the translation effect of a ten percent devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to the other foreign currencies in which we transact business would have increased operating income of our non-u.s. operating units by approximately $33.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2018 . this sensitivity analysis has inherent limitations. the analysis disregards the possibility that rates of multiple foreign currencies will not always move in the same direction relative to the value of the u.s. dollar over time and does not account for foreign exchange derivatives that we utilize to mitigate fluctuations in exchange rates. in addition, we enter into certain purchase commitments for materials that, although denominated in u.s. dollars, are linked to foreign currency valuations. these commitments generally contain a range for which the price of materials may fluctuate over time given the value of a foreign currency. the translation of the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated operations is made using local currency exchange rates as of the end of the year. translation adjustments are not included in determining net income but are disclosed in accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci") within shareholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheets until a sale or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the subsidiary takes place. in certain markets, we could recognize a significant gain or loss related to unrealized cumulative translation adjustments if we were to exit the market and liquidate our net investment. as of december 31, 2018 , cumulative net currency translation adjustments increased shareholders' equity by $104.5 million . we monitor and strive to manage risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. exposures that cannot be naturally offset within a local entity to an immaterial amount are often hedged with foreign exchange derivatives or netted with offsetting exposures at other entities. we cannot predict future changes in foreign currency movements and fluctuations that could materially impact earnings. 76 perrigo company plc - item 7a interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of interest income earned on our investment of cash on hand and interest expense on borrowings. we have in the past, and may in the future, enter into certain derivative financial instruments related to the management of interest rate risk, when available on a cost-effective basis. these instruments are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets. gains and losses on hedging transactions are offset by gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. seerisk factors 25 risk factors - tax related risks and item 8. note 15 . 4 perrigo company plc - item 1 business overview api divestitures during the year ended december 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our india api business to strides shasun limited for $22.2 million in proceeds. prior to closing the sale, we determined that the carrying value of the india api business exceeded its fair value less the cost to sell, resulting in an impairment charge of $35.3 million , which was recorded in impairment charges on the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended december 31, 2016. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our israel api business to sk capital, for a sale price of $110.0 million . financial asset during the year ended december 31, 2017, we divested the tysabri financial asset to royalty pharma for $2.2 billion in upfront cash and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in milestone payments. we received the $250.0 million royalty payment on february 22, 2019. in order for us to receive the milestone payment related to 2020 of $400.0 million , the payments received by royalty pharma from biogen for tysabri sales in 2020 must exceed $351.0 million . the 2018 royalty pharma payments from biogen for tysabri were $337.5 million . we elected to account for the contingent milestone payments using the fair value option method, and these were recorded at an estimated fair value of $134.5 million as of december 31, 2017. upon tysabri meeting the 2018 global net sales threshold we recorded a $170.1 million gain in change in financial assets . the fair value of the milestone payment related to 2020 is $95.3 million as of december 31, 2019 . new products we consider a product to be new if it (i) was reformulated, (ii) was a product line extension due to changes in characteristics such as strength, flavor, or color, (iii) had a change in product status from "prescription only" ("rx") to otc, (iv) was a new store brand or branded launch, (v) was provided in a new dosage form or (vi) was sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities, in all cases, within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , new product sales were $230.5 million . consumer self-care americas overview the csca segment is focused primarily on the sale of store brand, self-care products in categories including upper respiratory, pain and sleep-aids, digestive health, nutrition, vitamins, minerals and supplements, healthy lifestyle, skincare and personal hygiene, and oral self-care in the u.s., mexico, canada, and south america. we are a leading provider of self-care products sold to consumers via store brands. consumer awareness and knowledge of the quality and value that otc store brand products represent continues to grow due to efforts made by store brand customers, retailers, and wholesalers to promote their own label programs. we also provide consumer self-care products under our own brands. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , our csca segment represented approximately 51% of consolidated net sales. the csca segment develops, manufactures, and markets store brand, self-care products that are comparable in quality and effectiveness to national brands. store brand products must meet the same u.s. food and drug administration ("fda") requirements as national brands within the u.s. and the requirements of comparable regulatory bodies outside the u.s. in most instances our product packaging is designed to invite and reinforce comparison to national brand products, while communicating store brand value to consumers. the cost of store brand products to retailers is significantly lower than that of comparable nationally advertised brand name products. generally, retailers' dollar profit per unit of store brand product is greater than the dollar profit per unit of the comparable national brand product. the retailer, therefore, can price a store brand product below the competing national brand product and realize a greater profit margin. the consumer benefits by 5 perrigo company plc - item 1 csca receiving a high-quality product at a price below the comparable national brand product. as a result, our business model results in consumers saving money on their self-care needs. we are dedicated to continuing to be the leader in developing and marketing new store brand products and have a research and development ("r&amp;d") staff that we believe is one of the most experienced in the industry at developing products comparable in formulation and quality to national brand products. in order to offer consumers product features or benefits that national brand companies do not offer, we have recently implemented a product development strategy to differentiate store brand products from national brands. our r&amp;d team also responds to changes in existing national brand products by reformulating existing products. for example, in the otc pharmaceutical market, certain new products are the result of changes in product status from rx to otc. these rx-to-otc switches require fda approval through a process initiated by the drug innovator. the drug innovator usually begins the process by filing a new drug application ("nda"), which is often followed by a competitor filing an abbreviated new drug application ("anda"). new drugs are also marketed through the fda's otc monograph process, which allows us to produce drugs that are generally recognized as safe and effective without pre-marketing approval. in the oral self-care category, we focus on creating products that are equivalent to the national brands, and also partner with our customers to create exclusive brands and differentiated products. we rely on both internal r&amp;d and strategic product development agreements with outside sources to develop new products. the csca segment also develops, manufactures, and distributes certain branded products, which are consistent with the segment's self-care strategy. branded products sold under brand names include prevacid 24hr, good sense , zephrex d , scaraway , plackers , and rembrandt . we manufacture a significant portion of our csca segment's products at our plants located in the u.s., mexico, china, and israel, and we source the remaining product materials from third parties. in addition, in order to maximize both our capacity and sales of proprietary formulas, we engage in contract manufacturing, which involves producing unique andas and monograph products through partnerships with major pharmaceutical and direct-to-consumer companies. we believe the increasing age of the global population, continued rising healthcare costs, and consumers who proactively prevent or treat conditions will drive the need for the enhanced value that our products provide to consumers. in addition, we believe that new products and products switching from rx to otc status (as described above) will continue to drive growth within the segment. recent developments on february 20, 2020 , we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the oral care assets of high ridge brands for cash of $113.0 million . the transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2020 subject to bankruptcy court approval in connection with high ridge brands' chapter 11 cases, as well as other customary closing conditions. this transaction, in combination with our existing children's oral self-care portfolio, provides a new platform for disruptive product innovation in the form of exclusive store and value brand programs that challenge current national brand oral care offerings. on january 3, 2020 , we acquired steripod , a leading toothbrush accessory brand and innovator in the toothbrush protector market, from bonfit america inc. the acquisition, which includes a portfolio of antibacterial toothbrush protectors, kids' toothbrush protectors and tongue cleaners, complements our current portfolio of oral self-care products, and leverages our manufacturing and marketing platform. operating results attributable to the products will be included in our csca segment. total consideration paid was $24.7 million , subject to customary post-closing adjustments (refer to item 8. note 22 ). on november 29, 2019 , we acquired the branded otc rights to prevacid 24hr from glaxosmithkline for $61.5 million . the acquisition of prevacid 24hr expands our u.s. otc presence with a leading brand in our digestive health product category (refer to item 8. note 3 ). 6 perrigo company plc - item 1 csca during the three months ended september 28, 2019, after worldwide regulatory bodies announced that ranitidine may potentially contain n-nitrosodimethylamine ("ndma"), a known environmental contaminant, we promptly began testing our externally-sourced ranitidine api and ranitidine-based products. on october 8, 2019, we halted shipments of the product based upon preliminary results. based on the totality of data gathered, we made the decision to conduct a voluntary retail market withdrawal, which resulted in a decrease in net sales of $7.4 million and a decrease in gross profit of $15.5 million in our csca segment. on july 8, 2019 , we completed the sale of our animal health business to petiq for cash consideration of $182.5 million , which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $71.7 million recorded in other (income) expense, net on the consolidated statements of operations (refer to item 8. note 3 ). on july 1, 2019 , we acquired ranir, a privately-held leading global supplier of private label and branded oral self-care products, for $747.7 million . this transaction advances our transformation to a consumer-focused, self-care company while enhancing our position as a global leader in consumer self-care solutions (refer to item 8. note 3 ). on april 1, 2019 , we purchased the andas and other records and registrations of budesonide nasal spray, a generic equivalent of rhinocort allergy and triamcinolone nasal spray, a generic equivalent of nasacort allergy , from barr laboratories, inc., a subsidiary of teva pharmaceuticals, for a total of $14.0 million in cash (refer to item 8. note 3 ). products as we continue to transform to a consumer-focused, self-care company, we re-aligned our product categories as of december 31, 2019. the re-alignment standardizes our categories and product level detail to provide consistency across our consumer segments. this transformative step will optimize the way in which management reports and evaluates our business. our csca segment offers products in the following categories: product category description pain and sleep-aids products comprised of pain relievers, fever reducers and sleep-aids. upper respiratory products that relieve upper respiratory symptoms, including cough suppressants, expectorants, and sinus relief. digestive health products such as antacids, anti-diarrheal, and anti-heartburn that relieve symptoms associated with digestive issues. nutrition infant formulas and nutritional beverages. healthy lifestyle products that help consumers live a healthy lifestyle such as smoking cessation, diabetes care, and well-being products. skincare and personal hygiene products for the face and body such as dermatological care, scar management, lice treatment, and other products for various skin conditions. oral self-care products used for oral care, including toothbrushes, toothbrush replacement heads, floss, flossers, and whitening products. vitamins, minerals and supplements ("vms") vitamins, minerals, and supplements. other diagnostic products and other miscellaneous self-care products. 7 perrigo company plc - item 1 csca the chart below reflects net sales by product category in the csca segment, which includes net sales from our otc contract manufacturing business and our now-divested animal health business for the year ended december 31, 2019 . we launched several new csca products in the year ended december 31, 2019 , most notably loperamide simethicone, nicotine cherry ice mint mini lozenge, and a store brand infant formula launch at a major retailer. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , new product sales in the csca segment were $36.2 million . we, on our own or in conjunction with partners, received final fda approval from u.s. health authorities for three new products within the csca segment in the year ended december 31, 2019 , and as of december 31, 2019 , we had three new product applications pending fda approval. sales and marketing our customers include major global, national, and regional retail drug, supermarket, and mass merchandise chains such as walmart, costco, cvs, kroger, target, walgreens boots alliance, dollar general, sam's club, topco, rite aid, and amazon, and major wholesalers, including mckesson, amerisource bergen, and cardinal health. we seek to establish customer loyalty through superior customer service by providing a comprehensive assortment of high quality, value-priced products; timely processing, shipment and delivery of orders; assistance in managing customer inventories; and support in managing and building the customer's store brand business. the csca segment employs its own sales force to service larger customers and uses industry brokers for other customers. field sales employees, with support from marketing and customer service, are assigned to specific customers in order to work most effectively with the customer. they assist customers by developing customized in-store marketing programs for customers' store brand products. the primary objective of this store brand management approach is to enable our customers, retailers and wholesalers to increase sales and market share of their own store brand products by communicating store brand 8 perrigo company plc - item 1 csca quality and value to the consumer and by inviting comparison to national brand products. our sales and marketing personnel assist customers in the development and introduction of new store brand products and in the promotion of customers' existing store brand products by providing market information; establishing individualized promotions and marketing programs, which may include floor displays, bonus sizes, coupons, rebates, store signs, and promotional packs; and performing consumer research. as e-commerce continues to grow as a consumer channel for our products, we have developed resources, programs and tools to be a strategic marketing partner for our customers' digital marketing efforts. in contrast with national brand manufacturers, which incur considerable advertising and marketing expenditures targeted directly to the end user or consumer, the csca segment's store brand primary marketing efforts are channeled through retailers and wholesalers and reach the consumer through our customers' in-store marketing programs and our digital media programs. because the retail profit margin for store brand products is generally higher than for national brand products, retailers and wholesalers often commit funds for additional promotions. in addition to in-store marketing programs, our nutrition category markets directly to consumers and healthcare professionals. competition the markets for our self-care products are highly competitive and differ for each product line and geographic region. our primary competitors include manufacturers, such as dr. reddy's labs, lnk international, inc., pl developments and aurobindo, and brand-name pharmaceutical and consumer product companies, such as johnson &amp; johnson, procter &amp; gamble, pfizer, bayer ag, gsk, abbott nutrition, philips, and reckitt benckiser. the various major categories of our csca business each have certain key competitors, such that a competitor generally does not compete across all product lines. however, some competitors do have larger sales volumes in certain of our categories. additionally, national brand companies tend to have more resources committed to marketing their products and could in the future manufacture store brand versions of their products at lower prices than their national brand products. competition is based on a variety of factors, including price, quality, assortment of products, customer service, marketing support, and approvals for new products (refer to item 1a. risk factors - operational risks for additional information and risks associated with competition). consumer self-care international overview the csci segment is comprised of our branded consumer self-care business primarily in europe and australia, and our consumer-focused business in the united kingdom and parts of asia. this segment also includes our united kingdom liquid licensed products business. the csci segment develops, manufactures, markets, and distributes many well-known european consumer self-care brands in the upper respiratory, pain and sleep-aids, digestive health, vitamins, minerals and supplements, healthy lifestyle, skincare and personal hygiene, and oral self-care categories. the segment leverages its broad regulatory, sales, and distribution infrastructure to in-license and sell third-party brands and generic pharmaceutical products. the csci segment distributes these products through an extensive network of customers including pharmacies, wholesalers, drug and grocery store retailers, and para-pharmacies in more than 30 countries, primarily in europe. many csci products have market leading positions in the markets in which they compete. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , the csci segment represented approximately 29% of consolidated net sales. through continued investment in r&amp;d partnerships and new technologies, the csci segment strives to offer high quality self-care products that meet consumers' needs. internal r&amp;d, new product development, insourcing, acquisitions, and partnerships support the new product pipeline, both in terms of brand extensions and product improvements. in the u.k., r&amp;d focuses on oral liquid formulations for the branded rx products for which liquid formulations are not available, as well as the development of store brand products and products for the branded business. additional r&amp;d centers are located in france, sweden, austria, belgium, china, the u.k., germany, and hong kong. in the rest of europe, most r&amp;d is performed by external partners with oversight by our teams. the segment has seven plants dedicated to manufacturing certain of its products. 9 perrigo company plc - item 1 csci the csci segment primarily focuses on building local and regional brands. in many markets outside of the u.s., a brand marketing strategy can be more effective than a store brand strategy due to the absence of mass merchandisers and large-scale pharmacy chains. additionally, the inconsistent application of the centralized regulatory environment within europe adds to the complexity of obtaining approvals for products in these markets. while the csci segment sells over 200 brands, both on its own and through third parties, it focuses its resources on its "focus brands", which are selected on the basis of their current sales and growth potential in the self-care market. additional resources are allocated to these focus brands to strengthen their market position in high opportunity profit categories. recent developments during the three months ended december 31, 2019 , following commercial launch delays relating to certain pain relief products that we licensed from a third party, the licensor determined that it would not extend the license agreement upon expiration. as a result, we recorded an asset impairment of $9.7 million relating to this license, which we had reported as a definite-lived intangible asset (refer to item 8. note 4 and note 7 ). during the three months ended september 28, 2019, after worldwide regulatory bodies announced that ranitidine may potentially contain ndma, a known environmental contaminant, we promptly began testing our externally sourced ranitidine api and ranitidine-based products. on october 8, 2019, we halted shipments of the product based upon preliminary results. based on the totality of data gathered, we made the decision to conduct a voluntary retail market withdrawal, which resulted in a decrease in net sales of $1.8 million and a decrease in gross profit of $2.9 million in our csci segment. on july 1, 2019 , we acquired ranir, a privately-held leading global supplier of private label and branded oral self-care products, for $747.7 million . this transaction advances our transformation to a consumer-focused, self-care company while enhancing our position as a global leader in consumer self-care solutions. ranir's non-u.s. operations are located primarily in the united kingdom, france, germany, and china (refer to item 8. note 3 ). products as we continue to transform to a consumer-focused, self-care company, we re-aligned our product categories as of december 31, 2019. the re-alignment standardizes our categories and product level detail to provide consistency across our consumer segments. this transformative step will optimize the way in which management reports and evaluates our business. our csci segment offers products and focus brands in the following categories: 10 perrigo company plc - item 1 csci product category description focus brands pain and sleep-aids products comprised of pain relievers, fever reducers and sleep-aids. solpadeine nytol upper respiratory products that relieve upper respiratory symptoms, including cough suppressants, expectorants, and sinus relief. bittner bronchenolo /bronchostop physiomer phytosun coldrex prevalin /beconase digestive health products such as antacids, anti-diarrheal, and anti-heartburn that relieve symptoms associated with digestive issues. healthy lifestyle products that help consumers live a healthy lifestyle such as smoking cessation, weight management, diabetes care, and well-being products. niquitin xls (medical) yokebe skincare and personal hygiene products for the face and body such as dermatological care, sun protection, scar management, lice treatment, insect repellents, and other products for various skin conditions. aco biodermal canoderm dermalex lactacyd wartner jungle formula paranix pencivir oral self-care products used for oral care, including toothbrushes, toothbrush replacement heads, floss, flossers, and whitening products. plackers vitamins, minerals and supplements ("vms") vitamins, minerals, and supplements. abtei arterin davitamon granufink other diagnostic products and other miscellaneous self-care products. the chart below reflects net sales by product category in the csci segment for the year ended december 31, 2019 . 11 perrigo company plc - item 1 csci we launched a number of new csci products in the year ended december 31, 2019 , most notably xls-medical forte 5, phytosun aroms organic essential oils, and aco brands in the healthy lifestyle, upper respiratory, and skincare and personal hygiene categories, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , new product sales in the csci segment were $108.0 million . the csci segment has more than 150 strategic new products across all product categories in development, with each of its focus brands having a five-year innovation master plan. sales and marketing our products, including products from the ranir acquisition, are sold to customers including pharmacies, drug stores, and grocery stores located primarily in europe, such as walgreens boots alliance, mckesson, as watson, tesco, asda-walmart, dm, and carrefour. the csci segment sells its products primarily through an established pharmacy sales force to an extensive network of individual pharmacists. our sales representatives visit pharmacists frequently, ensuring strong in-store visibility of our brands and facilitating pharmacist education programs. our sales, marketing, and regulatory teams use training/merchandising teams who work in conjunction with local sales representatives to improve our brands' presence and recognition. we seek to attract key talent from leading otc, fast moving consumer goods ("fmcg"), and retailer companies to build strong local teams throughout the countries in which the csci segment operates. while csci products have a higher average gross margin than products sold in the csca segment, selling expenses are significantly higher due to the sales force mentioned above, as well as broadcast advertising and point-of-sale promotional spending to enhance brand equity. key marketing communication tools for the csci segment include television and digital commercials, consumer leaflets, product websites, and targeted promotional campaigns. competition the competitive landscape of the european consumer products market, in the categories in which we compete, is highly fragmented, as local companies often hold leadership positions in individual product segments in particular countries. as a result, the relevant competition in each of the csci segment's markets is both local and global. competitors include gsk, sanofi, bayer, johnson &amp; johnson, reckitt benckiser, teva, mylan, stada, novartis, zentiva, and procter &amp; gamble, as well as additional regional competitors. we believe our key advantage lies in our unique combination of best practices in sales, marketing, and product development (refer to item 1a. risk factors - operational risks for additional information and risks associated with competition). prescription pharmaceuticals overview the rx segment develops, manufactures, and markets a portfolio of generic prescription drugs primarily for sale in the u.s. we define this portfolio as predominantly "extended topicals", as it encompasses a broad array of dosage forms such as creams, ointments, lotions, gels, shampoos, foams, suppositories, sprays, liquids, suspensions, and solutions. the portfolio also includes select controlled substances, injectables, hormones, oral solid dosage forms, and oral liquid formulations. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , the rx segment represented approximately 20% of consolidated net sales. in addition to extended topical products, which are the focus of our development efforts, our current development areas include other delivery systems such as oral liquids, metered dose inhalers, injectables, and transdermal products, some of which we are developing with third parties. our other areas of expertise include our production capabilities for controlled substances and hormonal products. our r&amp;d efforts focus on complex formulations, many of which require costly or complex clinical trials. we manufacture our topical and oral products in the u.s. and israel, and also source from various fda-approved third parties. rx products are manufactured, labeled, and packaged in facilities that comply with strict fda regulatory standards. 12 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx we actively collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies to develop, manufacture, and market certain products or groups of products. these types of collaboration agreements are common in the pharmaceutical industry. we may choose to enter into these types of agreements to, among other things, leverage our or our collaborators' r&amp;d and manufacturing expertise, or utilize our extensive marketing and distribution resources (refer to item 8. note 2 for more information regarding our method for recognizing revenue and expenses related to collaboration agreements, as well as item 8. note 18 for more information regarding our collaboration agreements). recent trends and developments although pricing pressure is showing some signs of moderation, during 2019 we continued to experience a significant year-over-year reduction in pricing in our rx segment due to competitive pressure. we expect softness in pricing to continue to impact the segment for the foreseeable future. on february 24, 2020, along with our partner catalent pharma solutions, we received approval from the fda on our abbreviated new drug application for generic albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol, the first ab-rated generic version of proair hfa. shortly after approval, we launched with limited commercial quantities and anticipate that we will be in a position to provide a steady supply of this product by the fourth quarter of 2020. during the three months ended december 31, 2019 , we tested our rx u.s. reporting unit for impairment. the impairment indicators related to a combination of industry and market factors that led to reduced projections of future cash flows. we determined the reporting unit was impaired and recorded an impairment charge of $109.2 million (refer to item 8. note 4 and note 7 ). during the three months ended december 31, 2019 , we identified impairment indicators on a definite-lived intangible asset related to our clindamycin and benzoyl peroxide topical gel (generic equivalent to benzaclin ). increases in competition caused price erosion that lowered our long-range revenue forecast, which indicated the asset was no longer recoverable and was partially impaired. we recorded an asset impairment of $21.2 million (refer to item 8. note 4 and note 7 ). on july 2, 2019 , we purchased the anda for a generic gel product for $49.0 million in cash, which we capitalized as a developed product technology intangible asset. we launched the product during the third quarter of 2019 (refer to item 8. note 3 ). during the three months ended september 28, 2019, we identified impairment indicators related to our evamist branded product, which is a definite-lived intangible asset. the indicators related to a decline in sales volume and a corresponding reduction in our long-range revenue forecast. we recorded an asset impairment of $10.8 million (refer to item 8. note 4 and note 7 ). on may 17, 2019 , we purchased the anda for a generic product used to relieve pain for $15.7 million in cash, which we capitalized as a developed product technology intangible asset. we launched the product during the third quarter of 2019 (refer to item 8. note 3 ). during the three months ended june 29, 2019, we identified impairment indicators for a certain definite-lived asset related to changes in pricing and competition in the market, which lowered the projected cash flows we expect to generate from the asset. we recorded an asset impairment of $27.8 million (refer to item 8. note 4 and note 7 ). 13 perrigo company plc - item 1 rx products listed below are some of the generic prescription products, including authorized generic products, that we manufacture and/or distribute: generic name (1) comparative brand-name drug acyclovir cream zovirax alogliptin tabs nesina bacitracin ophthalmic ointment n/a betamethasone calcipotriene ointment taclonex clindamycin phosphate topical cleocin t erythromycin ophthalmic ointment n/a hydrocortisone pramoxine cream pramosone ketoconazole shampoo nizoral mesalamine rectal rowasa permethrin cream elimite tacrolimus protopic testosterone 1.62% gel androgel testosterone cypionate injection depo , testosterone tretinoin cream and gel retin-a triamcinolone cream/ointment triderm /kenalog (1) contains the same active ingredients present in the same dosage form as the comparable brand-name drug we launched a number of new rx products in the year ended december 31, 2019 , most notably acyclovir cream (generic equivalent to zovirax cream), diclofenac gel 1% (generic equivalent to voltaren gel), metronidazole gel 0.75% (generic equivalent to metrogel-vaginal ), and relaunched the scopolamine patch. during the year ended december 31, 2019 , new product sales in the rx segment were $86.3 million . during the year ended december 31, 2019 , we, on our own or in collaboration with partners, received final approval from fda health authorities for seven rx drug applications, and as of december 31, 2019 , we had 26 rx drug applications pending approval. sales and marketing our customers include sourcing groups such as red oak, wbad and clarusone, major wholesalers, national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, hospitals, and pharmacies. competition the market for rx products is subject to intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies launching their own generic version of their branded products (known as an authorized generic), manufacturers of branded drug products that continue to produce those products after patent expirations, and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. among our generic drug manufacturer competitors are sandoz inc., taro pharmaceuticals, mylan, teva pharmaceutical industries ltd., glenmark generics inc., akorn, and lupin. we believe that one of our primary competitive advantages is our ability to introduce difficult to develop and/or manufacture topical generic versions to brand-name drug products. generally, these products are exposed to less competition due to the more complex and expensive development, clinical trial, and approval processes. in addition, we believe we have a favorable competitive position due primarily to our efficient distribution systems, topical production economies of scale, customer service, and overall reputation for high quality products (refer to item 1a. risk factors - operational risks for more information and risks associated with competition). 14 perrigo company plc - item 1 information applicable to all reportable segments trademarks, patents and licensing agreements while we own certain trademarks and patents, neither our business as a whole, nor any of our segments, is materially dependent upon our ownership of any one trademark, or patent, or group of trademarks or patents. materials sourcing affordable, high-quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. supplies of certain raw materials and product delivery systems may be more limited, as they are available from one or only a few suppliers and may require extensive compatibility testing before we can use them. we have been purchasing an increasing number of components and select finished goods rather than manufacturing them because of the availability of goods, economic reasons, temporary production limitations, fda restrictions, sale of our api businesses, and other factors. historically, we have been able to react effectively, yet not always immediately, to situations that require alternate sourcing. should such alternate sourcing be necessary, fda requirements placed on products approved through the anda or nda process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. we believe we have good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of our suppliers and have historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to our volume of purchases (refer to item 1a. risk factors - operational risks for risks associated with materials sourcing). manufacturing and distribution our primary manufacturing facilities are in the u.s. we also have manufacturing facilities in the u.k., belgium, france, germany, austria, israel, mexico, china, and australia, along with a joint venture in china (refer to item 1a. risk factors - operational risks for risks associated with our manufacturing facilities). we supplement our production capabilities with the purchase of products from outside sources. the capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times for various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of certain product categories, and new product launches. we may utilize available capacity by performing contract manufacturing for other companies. we have logistics facilities in the u.s., israel, mexico, australia, and numerous locations throughout europe. we use contract freight and common carriers to deliver our products. significant customers our primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current global retail drug industry marketplace. walmart is our largest customer and accounted for the following percentage of consolidated net sales: year ended december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 13.0 % 12.8 % 13.0 % sales to walmart are primarily in the csca segment. in addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. the next five largest customers represent 25% of net sales in 2019. the loss of several of these customers could be material. we believe we generally have good relationships with all our customers (refer to item 1a. risk factors - operational risks for risks associated with customers). 15 perrigo company plc - item 1 environmental our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. we undergo periodic internal audits relating to environmental, health and safety requirements in order to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. we have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws; however, we do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations have been or will be material to our business. we do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding. while we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term. corporate social responsibility we are committed to doing business in an ethical manner. we have a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where we are located. as reflected in our corporate social responsibility ("csr") report available on our website, we remain committed to: providing "quality, affordable self-care products "; environmental stewardship; employee diversity, health and well-being; community engagement; and human rights. government regulation and pricing the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. in addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. we believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject (refer to item 1a. risk factors - operational risks for related risks). united states regulation u.s. food and drug administration the fda has jurisdiction over our rx, otc drug products, api, and infant formula. the fda's jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of these products. we are committed to consistently providing our customers with high quality products that adhere to "current good manufacturing practices" ("cgmp") regulations promulgated by the fda. otc and rx pharmaceuticals all facilities where rx and otc products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed for the u.s. market must comply with fda cgmps and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries, states and localities where the facilities are located. all of our drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cgmp regulations. the fda performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. many of our otc products are regulated under the otc monograph system and subject to certain fda regulations. under this system, selected otc drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the approval of an anda or nda prior to marketing. products marketed under the otc monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula, and labeling requirements, including permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients, and dosage levels. it is generally less costly to develop and bring to market a product regulated under the otc monograph system. 16 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation we also market generic prescription drugs and non-prescription products that have switched from prescription to otc status. prior to commercial marketing, these products require approval by the fda of an anda or nda that provides information on chemistry, manufacturing controls, clinical safety, efficacy and/or bioequivalence, packaging, and labeling. while the development process for these drugs generally requires less time and expense than the development process of a new drug, the size and duration of required studies can vary greatly. prior to the onset of the generic drug user fee amendments of 2012 ( gdufa ), the fda approval of generic drug applications took approximately three to five times longer than approval of innovator drugs. pursuant to gdufa ii, beginning october 1, 2017, year five of the program, the fda pledged to complete a first cycle review on 90% of electronic generic applications within 10 months of submission. under the federal food, drug and cosmetic act, as amended ("ffdca") (the hatch-waxman amendments), a company submitting an nda can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for a prescription or otc product if it performs a clinical study that is essential to fda approval. longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs (those designated under section 526 of the ffdca) and drugs under the generating antibiotic incentives now act. during this exclusivity period, the fda cannot approve any andas for a similar or equivalent generic product, which can preclude another party from marketing a similar product during this period. a company may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity if it conducts pediatric studies requested by the fda on the product. this exclusivity can delay both the fda approval and sales of certain products. a company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for certain products. this exclusivity period often follows a patent certification and litigation process whereby the product innovator may sue for infringement. the legal action does not ordinarily result in material damages, but it generally triggers a statutorily mandated delay in fda approval of the anda for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge. the food and drug administration safety and innovation act ("fdasia") was signed into law on july 9, 2012. the law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, fda authority concerning drug shortages, changes to enhance the fda's inspection authority of the drug supply chain, and a limited extension of the 30-month stay provision described above. the fdasia also reduced the time required for fda responses to generic-blocking citizen petitions. we implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of the fdasia, and we monitor facility self-identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications. the u.s. government's federal drug supply chain security act ("dscsa") requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. the serialization of all rx products distributed in the u.s. needed to be completed by november 26, 2018, with the requirement for tracking the products commencing on november 27, 2023. requirements for the tracing of products at the lot level through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain went into effect on january 1, 2015 for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. the fda reauthorization act of 2017 created a pathway by which the fda may, at the request of an applicant, designate a drug with inadequate generic competition as a competitive generic therapy ("cgt"). at the request of the applicant, the fda may expedite the development and review of an anda for a drug designated as a cgt. the first approved application for a drug with a cgt designation for which there are no unexpired patents or exclusivities listed in the orange book at the time of original submission of the anda may be eligible for 180 days of generic exclusivity. active pharmaceutical ingredients third parties develop and manufacture apis for use in certain of our pharmaceutical products that are sold in the u.s. and other global markets. api manufacturers typically submit a drug master file to the regulatory authority that provides the proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. the fda inspects the manufacturing facilities to assess cgmp compliance, and the facilities and procedures must be cgmp compliant 17 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation before api may be exported to the u.s. infant formula the fda's center for food safety and applied nutrition is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. the office of nutrition, labeling and dietary supplements ("onlds") has labeling responsibility for infant formula, while the office of food additive safety ("ofas") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. the onlds evaluates whether an infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the ffdca and consults with the ofas regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula. all manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. the infant formula act provides specific requirements for infant formula to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum and, in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients. before marketing a particular infant formula, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation consistent with the fda's labeling, nutrient content, and manufacturer quality control requirements. a manufacturer must notify the fda at least 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. we actively monitor this process and make the appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with recent fda rules regarding cgmp, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records for the production of infant formulas. in addition, the ffdca requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life; to keep records on production, testing, and distribution of each batch of infant formula; to use cgmp and quality control procedures; and to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which may reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. the fda conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula, inspects new facilities during early production runs, and collects and analyzes samples of infant formula. our infant formula manufacturing facilities have been inspected by the fda with no corrective actions required. our infant and toddler foods are subject to the food safety modernization act ("fsma"), which protects the safety of u.s. foods by mandating comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. under fsma, the fda has mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers and is taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of a safety issue. u.s. department of agriculture the organic foods production act enacted under title 21 of the 1990 farm bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic." our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio adhere to the standards of the u.s. department of agriculture ("usda") national organic program for production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. our infant formula manufacturing sites in vermont and ohio are usda-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for u.s. and canadian markets. u.s. environmental protection agency the u.s. environmental protection agency ("epa") is the main regulatory body in the united states governing environmental regulation. laws administered by the epa, often in partnership with state agencies, include but are not limited to the clean air act; the clean water act; the resource conservation and recovery act; the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act; and the federal insecticide, fungicide, and rodenticide act. 18 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation u.s. drug enforcement administration the u.s. drug enforcement administration ("dea") regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, testosterone, midazolam, and list i chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal controlled substances act ("csa"). the csa and dea regulations impose registration, security, record keeping, reporting, storage, manufacturing, distribution, importation and other requirements upon legitimate handlers under the oversight of the dea. the dea categorizes controlled substances into schedules i, ii, iii, iv, or v, with varying qualifications for listing in each schedule. we are subject to the requirements regarding the controlled substances in schedules ii - v and the list i chemicals. our facilities that manufacture, distribute, import, or export any controlled substances must register annually with the dea. the dea inspects all manufacturing facilities to review security, record keeping, reporting, and handling prior to issuing a controlled substance registration, and it also periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the csa and its regulations. failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements, particularly as manifested in the loss or diversion of controlled substances, can result in enforcement action, such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registration, or the initiation of proceedings to revoke those registrations. in certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal prosecution. we are also subject to state laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of certain products. federal healthcare programs and drug pricing regulation within the u.s., government healthcare insurance and welfare programs such as the medicare and medicaid programs are important third party payers for patients who take our products. these programs include several indirect forms of price regulation applicable to our drug products as a condition for coverage and/or payment for our products and also regulate the amount that pharmacies and other healthcare providers will be paid for our products. specifically, u.s. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of having federal funds being made available for the manufacturer's drugs under medicaid and medicare part b, enter into three government pricing program agreements: (i) a medicaid rebate agreement with the secretary of health and human services ( hhs ) to pay rebates to state medicaid programs for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state medicaid program; (ii) a 340b program agreement with the secretary of hhs to provide discounts to certain covered entity safety net healthcare providers; and (iii) a master agreement with the department of veterans affairs (the "va") under which discounts are available for purchases by federal agencies. we have such agreements in effect. medicaid rebate agreement the medicaid rebate agreement requires the drug manufacturer to remit rebates to each state medicaid agency on a quarterly basis for both fee-for-service and medicaid managed care organization utilization. rebate amounts are based on pricing data reported by the manufacturer to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), including average manufacturer price ("amp") and, in the case of innovator products, best price ("bp"). u.s. law also requires that a company that participates in the medicaid rebate program report average sales price ("asp") information to cms for each calendar quarter for certain categories of drugs that are paid under part b of the medicare program. cms uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under medicare part b. under the medicaid rebate program, the minimum rebate amounts due are as follows: (i) for noninnovator products, in general generic drugs marketed under andas, the rebate amount is 13% of the amp for the quarter; and (ii) for innovator products, in general brand-name products marketed under ndas, the rebate amount is the greater of 23.1% of the amp for the quarter or the difference between such amp and the bp for that same quarter. manufacturers also pay an additional rebate" on both innovator and noninnovator drugs where price increases since launch have outpaced inflation. beginning with the first quarter of 2017, an additional rebate is due for noninnovator products, which is calculated somewhat differently from the innovator product additional rebate, but likewise generally applies where and to the extent that a manufacturer's amp increases faster than the rate of inflation. cms issued a final regulation, generally effective april 1, 2016, to implement changes to the medicaid rebate program under the 2010 health reform legislation ( health reform law ) and otherwise to provide program guidance. in addition to guidance concerning rebate program administration matters, the regulation also addressed 19 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation certain related medicaid reimbursement matters. first, under the health reform law, cms has also begun to use manufacturer amp data to calculate reimbursement limits for pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limits ("fuls"). cms also surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information to provide state medicaid agencies with a basis for comparing their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. second, the regulation also directed states to update their medicaid payment methodologies to provide for payment amounts designed to reflect pharmacies' "actual acquisition costs" for drugs, a change from the prior "estimated acquisition" standard. the regulation also required states to provide the government with findings to support their compliance with this standard by april 1, 2017. pricing and rebate calculations are governed by statutory and regulatory requirements that are complex, vary among products and programs, can change over time, and are subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies , and the courts. in the case of the medicaid rebate program, if we become aware of errors in our prior price submissions, or a prior bp submission needs to be updated due to late arriving data, we must resubmit the updated data within specified time frames. such restatements and recalculations increase our cost of compliance with the medicaid rebate program, and corrections can result in an overage or underage of our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. 340b program agreement the 340b drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340b ceiling price for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. the ceiling price is derived from the data the manufacturer reports under the medicaid rebate program and therefore any changes to statutory or regulatory requirements applicable to the medicaid price figures may impact the 340b ceiling price calculation as well. 340b covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the public health service, as well as certain hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. master agreement with the department of veterans affairs u.s. law also requires any company that participates in the medicaid rebate program and medicare part b and that wants its covered drugs paid for by certain federal agencies and grantees to enter into a master agreement with the va. under the master agreement, the company must offer its prescription innovator drugs for procurement under the federal supply schedule ( fss ) contracting program, and must charge certain agencies (the va, department of defense, public health service and coast guard) no more than a statutory federal ceiling price ( fcp ). the fcp is calculated based on non-federal average manufacturer price data we submit to the va. fss contracts include extensive disclosure and certification requirements and standard government terms and conditions with which we must comply. products sold to the government under an fss contract must comply with the requirements of the trade agreements regarding the allowable countries where a product is manufactured or substantially transformed". consistent with the va's interpretation of the master agreement, we have also entered into an agreement to pay rebates on innovator drug prescriptions dispensed to tricare beneficiaries by tricare network retail pharmacies. medicare part d coverage gap rebates for certain innovator products, manufacturers must also enter into an agreement with the secretary of hhs to provide rebates with respect to utilization of their products by certain medicare part d beneficiaries while those patients are within the medicare part d benefit coverage gap. manufacturers are not required to submit separate pricing data under this program; the rebate amount is calculated by cms based on part d plans' negotiated prices paid to pharmacies. other price regulation and state regulation in addition to these technical government pricing regulation programs, drug pricing has come under increasing public scrutiny arising out of general concerns about high drug costs or price increases, and transparency of pricing and discounting practices within the pharmaceutical distribution system. congress is considering various amendments to federal drug pricing laws, as well as new forms of pricing regulation. several states have enacted laws that, among other things, require manufacturers to report information concerning 20 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation pharmaceutical pricing or marketing practices or to provide advance notice of price actions or applications for regulatory approvals to certain entities (refer to item 1a. risk factors - operational risks for risks related to the above-mentioned programs). other u.s. regulations and organizations we are subject to various other federal, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. other regulatory agencies, organizations, legislation, regulations and laws that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: physician payment sunshine act and similar state laws - this act and similar state laws require certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data. foreign corrupt practices act of 1977 ("fcpa") - this act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage. federal trade commission ("ftc") - this agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. the ftc considers whether a product's claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. the ftc also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. international organization for standardization ("iso") - the iso standards specify requirements for a quality management system that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. our infant formula manufacturing sites are iso 9001-2008 certified for quality management systems. iso inspections are conducted at least annually. united states pharmacopeial convention, inc. ("usp") - the usp is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. by reference, the ffdca incorporates the usp quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product's labeling. usp standards exist for most rx and otc pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. the fda typically requires usp compliance as part of cgmp compliance. health insurance portability and accountability act ("hipaa") - hipaa is a set of regulations designed to protect personal information and data collected and stored in medical records. it established a national standard to be used in all doctors' offices, hospitals and other businesses where personal medical information is stored. in addition to protecting personal medical information, hipaa also gives patients the right to view their medical records and request changes if the data is incorrect. we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. consumer product safety commission ("cpsc") - the cpsc has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. the manufacturer of any product that is subject to any cpsc rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with cpsc requirements. california safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act ("prop 65") - prop 65 is a toxic right-to-know warnings law that allows the state attorney general and private enforcers to sue on behalf of the public claiming the products in question sold in california violate the law by exposing consumers to chemicals in levels above those allowed by regulation without carrying warnings. 21 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation other state agencies - we are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state. regulation outside the u.s. we develop and manufacture products and market third-party manufactured products in regions outside the u.s., including europe, israel, canada, mexico, australia, countries in asia, south america, and the middle east, each of which has its own regulatory environment. the majority of our sales outside the u.s. are in the following categories: otc/rx pharmaceuticals, infant formulas, medical devices, dietary supplements, cosmetics, and oral self-care products. other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to: privacy regulations - we are subject to numerous global laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the european union general data protection regulation ( gdpr ). the gdpr introduced more stringent data protection requirements in the eu, as well as substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. the gdpr increased our responsibility and potential liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we have put in place additional mechanisms to comply with the gdpr. transparency laws - in various jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to the laws and regulations aimed at increasing transparency of financial relationships between healthcare professionals and pharmaceutical/medical device manufacturers. these acts require certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals. anti-bribery laws - various jurisdictions in which we operate have laws and regulations, including the u.k. bribery act 2010 and the irish criminal justice (corruption offenses) act 2018, aimed at preventing and penalizing corrupt and anticompetitive behavior. rules and regulations infant formula - outside of the u.s., country-specific regulations define the requirements that we must comply with regarding the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of infant formula. we are subject to ongoing periodic inspection through these complex regulations, including by the fda and other regulatory agencies such as the canadian food inspection agency ("cfia"). european union otc and rx pharmaceuticals the european pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the european parliament and the european commission. this has many benefits, including the potential to harmonize standards across the complex european market. however, obtaining regulatory agreement across member states presents complex challenges that can lead to delays in the regulatory process. in the eu, as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of medicinal products are regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the u.s. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any medicinal product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. the registration file relating to any particular product must contain data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and/or references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions. between 1995 and 1998, the over-arching regulation that governs medicinal products was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. this revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition procedure ( mrp ), whereby after approval of a marketing authorization by regulatory authorities in the reference 22 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation member state ( rms ), additional marketing authorizations could be submitted to other concerned member states to obtain a product license. in november 2005, the medicinal product legislation was further revised to introduce the decentralized procedure ( dcp ), whereby marketing authorizations are submitted simultaneously to the rms and select concerned member states. in 2005, the ema also opened up the centralized procedure to sponsors of marketing authorizations for generic medicinal products. unlike the mrp and dcp, the centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization and product labeling across all member states that will allow a sponsor to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the eu countries listed on the application. marketing authorizations and subsequent product licenses are granted to applicants only after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product. in addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer's facilities obtain approval from an eu regulatory authority. the eu has a code of gmp that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. regulatory authorities in the eu may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems and personnel qualifications. we believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject. in 2011, it was first proposed that the eu member states had to transition to the european falsified medicines directive (the directive ). the directive was subsequently written into national law on january 2, 2013. the directive made reference to a delegated act (the delegated act lists the detailed requirements for manufacturers). the delegated act was finalized and published in february 2017, and it provided for a two-year implementation period. as of february 2019, we are in compliance with the delegated act. the provisions of the directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of api manufactured outside of the eu. the directive required the serialization of all rx and some otc products, similar to the dscsa in the u.s. in the eu, member states regulate the pricing of prescription medicinal products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. this regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. these individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. the implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally, tendering refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country. data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, although the application is not uniform. in general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. as these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired. the requirements deriving from european pharmacovigilance regulation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors' expectations. pharmacovigilance fee regulation became effective in late 2014 to support health authority assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals. once approved, the advertising of pharmaceuticals in the eu is governed by national regulations and guidelines. within certain member states this is overseen by a self-certification process whereas in others national governance bodies approve material prior to release. the wholesale distribution of medicinal products is an important activity in the integrated supply chain management. the quality and the integrity of medicinal products can be affected by a lack of adequate control. to this end, the eu commission has published guidelines on good distribution practice of medicinal products for human use in 2013. the present guidelines are based on articles 84 and 85b(3) of medicinal products for human use directive. medical devices the eu has enacted into law numerous directives and adopted many harmonizing standards pertaining to a wide range of industrial products, including medical devices. medical devices that comply with the requirements of 23 perrigo company plc - item 1 regulation applicable directives are entitled to bear the ce marking of conformity, which indicates that the device conforms to the applicable requirements of the directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout europe. the method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an organization accredited by a member state. assessment by a notified body includes an audit of the manufacturer's quality system and may also include specific testing of the product. this assessment is a prerequisite for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the eu. on may 25, 2017, the eu's medical device regulation (the mdr ) became effective, with a three year transitional period until full application. all class i (low risk) medical devices need to comply with the mdr by may 26, 2020, and all medical devices sold in the eu will need to be approved under the mdr by may 26, 2024. notified bodies, which are organizations accredited by a member state, can continue to approve medical devices under the existing medical device directives (the mdds ) until may 26, 2020. beginning on may 27, 2020, notified bodies will no longer be able to approve new medical devices under the mdds or approve notifications of substantial design changes, including changes to labeling/packaging, changes to the manufacturing process, or the addition of new features and functionality, to medical devices that were approved under the mdds. dietary supplements dietary supplements are subject to several regulations that inform the selection of ingredient levels and how products can be described on packaging and in advertising. these regulations include: food supplements directive 2002/46/ec, food information to consumers regulation (eu) no 1169/2011, permitted vitamins and minerals regulation (ec) 1170/2009, food additives regulation (ec) 1333/2008, nutritional &amp; health claims regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, the foods intended for particular nutritional uses directive 2009/39/ec, and regulation (eu) 609/2013. eu rules on nutrition and health claims, which were established by regulation ec 1924/2006, apply to any nutritional or health claim by a manufacturer. the objective of the regulation is to ensure that claims made in food labeling or advertising are clear, accurate and based on scientific evidence. the european food safety authority, an advisory panel to the european commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. an eu register of nutrition and health claims exists to document approved, pending, and rejected claims. cosmetics cosmetic products in the eu market must comply with regulation ec no. 1223/2009. this regulation requires manufacturers to prepare a product safety report prior to placing a cosmetic product in the market. in addition, for each cosmetic product placed in the market, a responsible person must be designated to oversee compliance with the regulation's reporting requirements. commission regulation eu no. 655/2013 establishes the common criteria and justification for claims to be used in the packaging and advertising of cosmetics products. general product safety directive the general product safety directive (2001/95/ec) complements sector-specific legislation such as rules that apply to electrical and electronic goods, chemicals, and other specific product groups. together, the general product safety directive and sector specific legislation ensure the safety and traceability of products in the market (other than pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and food which are regulated under separate legislation). if our products fail to meet the general product safety directive, we may incur fines. employees as of december 31, 2019 , we had approximately 11,200 full-time and temporary employees worldwide, of which approximately 18% were covered by collective bargaining agreements. we consider our employee relations generally good. 24 perrigo company plc - item 1 available information our principal executive offices are located at the sharp building, hogan place, dublin 2, d02 ty74, and our north american base of operations is located at 515 eastern avenue, allegan, michigan 49010. our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. our website address is www.perrigo.com , where we make available free of charge our reports on forms 10-k, 10-q and 8-k, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"). these filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il . item 1a. risk factors index to risk factors page no. operational risks 25 global risks 38 litigation and insurance risks 40 tax related risks 43 capital and liquidity risks 47 operational risks we face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical and consumer packaged goods companies that may threaten the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. we operate in a highly competitive environment. our products compete against store brand, generic, and branded health and wellness products. competition is also impacted by changes in regulations and government pricing programs that may give competitors an advantage. if we are unable to compete successfully, our business will be harmed through loss of customers or increased negative pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and adversely affect our operating results. as a manufacturer of generic versions of brand-name drugs through our csca and rx segments, we experience competition from brand-name drug companies that may try to prevent, discourage or delay the use of generic versions through various measures, including introduction of new branded products, legislative initiatives, changing dosage forms or dosing regimens, regulatory processes, filing new patents or patent extensions, lawsuits, citizens' petitions, and negative publicity prior to introduction of a generic product. in addition, brand-name competitors may lower their prices to compete with generic products, increase advertising, or launch, either through an affiliate or licensing arrangements with another company, an authorized generic at or near the time the first generic product is launched, depriving the generic product of potential market exclusivity. our csca and rx segments may experience increased price competition as other generic companies produce the same product, sometimes for dramatically lower margins in order to gain market share. other companies may introduce new drugs and/or drug delivery techniques that make our current products less desirable. a drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity, and thereafter, we may be subject to further competition from generic products and otc pharmaceuticals or biosimilars. we develop and distribute branded products through our csca and csci segments. we experience competition from other brand-name companies, many of which are larger and have more resources to devote to advertising and marketing. these direct competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. our current and future competitors may develop products comparable or superior to those offered by us at more competitive prices. our csca and rx segments also experience competition from generic drug manufacturers, some of whom are significantly larger than we are, who may develop their products more rapidly or complete regulatory approval processes sooner, or may market their products earlier than we do. 25 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market innovative products, introduce new line extensions, or expand into adjacent categories that meet customer demands, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. our continued growth is due in large part to our ability to develop, manufacture, and market products that meet customer requirements for quality, safety, efficacy, and cost effectiveness. continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to our business. if we do not continue to develop, manufacture, and market new products, we could lose market share, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. we maintain a diversified product line to function as a primary supplier for our customers. capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. our future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. in addition, if we fail to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, we may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions. our product margins may decline over time due to our products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice, changes in competition for our existing products, or the introduction of next generation innovative products; therefore, new product introductions are necessary to maintain our current financial condition. if we are unable to continue to create new products, we may lose market share or experience pricing pressure, and our net sales may be negatively impacted. we must prove that the regulated generic drug products in our csca and rx segments are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which may require bioequivalence studies, and in the case of topical products, even more extensive clinical endpoint trials to demonstrate their efficacy. the development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly, and subject to a high degree of business risk. products currently under development may require re-design to meet evolving fda standards, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies, or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges. necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. any of these events may negatively impact our net sales. even if we are successful in developing a product, our customers' failure to launch one of our products successfully, or delays in manufacturing developed products, could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, the fda or similar regulatory agency could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain regulatory clearance to launch new formulations into the market, which could negatively impact our future net sales. our csca and csci segments are impacted by changes in consumer preferences. if we are unable to adapt to these changes, we may lose market share and our net sales may be negatively impacted. consumer preferences related to health and nutritional concerns may change, which could negatively impact demand for our csca and csci products or cause us to incur additional costs to change our products or product packaging. the future growth and stability of u.s. store brand market share can be impacted, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products. our csca segment sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and consumers return to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products. conversely, while store brand products present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, if economic conditions deteriorate, our csca segment sales could be negatively impacted if consumers forgo obtaining healthcare or reduce their healthcare spending. our csci segment's success is dependent on the continued growth in demand for its healthy lifestyle products, which includes products for weight management and well-being and smoking cessation. if demand for products in this category decreases, our csci segment's results of operations would be negatively impacted. our csca customers may request changes in packaging to meet consumer demands, which could cause us to incur inventory obsolescence charges and redesign costs, which in turn would negatively impact our csca segment's results of operations. 26 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our nutritional product category within our csca segment is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. our business depends, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. to the extent that private, public, and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products. we could also be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the u.s. federal government through the women, infants and children program, as we do not participate in this program. we operate in highly regulated industries, and any inability to timely meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. we are subject to the regulations of a variety of u.s. and non-u.s. agencies related to the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising, and sale of our products as described in detail in item 1. business - government regulation and pricing . changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations in the countries in which we operate could impose restrictions or delays on our ability to manufacture, distribute, sell or market our products, may be difficult or expensive for us to comply with, and may adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and financial condition. below are some of the ways in which government regulation could impact our business and/or financial results: we must obtain approval from the appropriate regulatory agencies in order to manufacture and sell our products in the regions in which we operate. obtaining this approval can be time consuming and costly. there can be no assurance that, in the event we submit an application for a marketing authorization to any global regulatory agency, we will obtain the approval to market a product and/or that we will obtain it on a timely basis. laws unique to the u.s. regulatory framework encourage generic competition by providing eligibility for first generic marketing exclusivity if certain conditions are met. if we are granted generic exclusivity, the exclusivity may be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics; or it is possible that we may forfeit 180-day exclusivity if we do not obtain regulatory approval or begin marketing the product within the statutory requirements. finally, if we are not the first to file our anda, the fda may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of our product and/or possibly reducing our market share. global regulatory agencies regularly inspect our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of our third-party suppliers. the failure of one of our facilities, or a facility of one of our third-party suppliers, to comply with applicable laws and regulations may lead to a breach of representations made to our customers, or to regulatory or government action against us related to the products made in that facility. such action could include suspension of or delay in regulatory approvals. if the compliance violations are severe, agencies of the government may initiate product seizure, injunction, recall, suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, or civil or criminal prosecution, thereby impacting the reputation of all of our products. in the u.s., the dscsa requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which is being implemented incrementally over a 10-year period beginning on january 1, 2015, for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on july 1, 2015 for dispensers. compliance with the u.s. electronic pedigree requirements has and will continue to increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. the european commission passed legislation requiring new product packaging safety features' to prevent falsification of medicinal products primarily within the prescription medicines sector. all marketing authorization holders in the eu member states and eea members norway, iceland, liechtenstein and switzerland were required to introduce the necessary changes by february 9, 2019 (or risk forfeiting their product licenses). however, manufacturers based out of greece, belgium and italy have an extended timeline until february 9, 2025 to implement the serialization guidelines as they already feature similar requirements on their current drug packages. compliance with the eu electronic pedigree requirements has and will continue to increase our operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens. global regulatory agencies highly scrutinize any product application submitted to switch a product from physician prescribed rx to unsupervised otc use by the general public. the expansion of rx-to-otc 27 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors switches is critical to our future growth. reluctance of regulatory agencies to approve rx-to-otc switches in new product categories could impact that growth. further, regulatory agencies can reassess the terms of otc classification if they perceive a shift in the previously assessed benefit/risk profile. any such reassessment may lead to otc products reverting to prescription. our infant formula products may be subject to barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and dictating the specific content of infant formula products. governments could enhance regulations on the industry aimed at ensuring the safety and quality of dairy products, including but not limited to, compulsory batch-by-batch inspection and testing for additional safety and quality issues. such inspections and testing may increase our operating costs related to infant formula products. if we are unable to successfully obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances and list i chemicals, we risk having delayed product launches or failing to meet commercial supply obligations. if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements for controlled substances and list i chemicals, the dea, or similar regulatory agency, may take regulatory actions, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution of our products, withdrawal of our products from the market, or other penalties. in order to commercially distribute our medical device products in the eu, they need to conform with the requirements of applicable eu directives. the method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a notified body, an organization accredited by a member state, which includes an audit of the manufacturer's quality system and, for some products, specific product testing. if our products fail to meet the applicable eu directives, then we may not meet our projected growth targets and/or incur fines and penalties. complying with the legislative framework for cosmetics and food supplements in the eu remains challenging as a result of changing eu regulations, diverging national regulations from eu regulations, and diverging regulations between eu member states. if our products fail to meet the applicable eu and/or national regulations, then we may not meet our projected growth targets and/or incur fines and penalties. beginning on may 26, 2024, all medical devices sold in the eu will need to be approved under the mdr. only notified bodies that have been designated under the mdr can carry out conformity assessment procedures, and only for certain types of devices listed by the product codes in their designation. this designation process is a lengthy and costly process, resulting in a shortage of certified notified bodies. if we fail to secure a notified body certified under mdr, this will impact our ability to keep our medical devices in the eu market. without required approval for our medical devices under mdr, we are not permitted to sell such medical devices in the eu. our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, such as restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, technologies and marking of the country of origin on products imported to the u.s. we must also comply with a variety of u.s. laws related to doing business outside of the u.s., including but not limited to, office of foreign asset controls; united nations and eu sanctions; the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012; rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act; and regulations enforced by the u.s. customs and border patrol . further changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare, may affect our business and operations. 28 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors continuing healthcare reforms and related changes to reimbursement methods in and outside of the united states may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. increasing healthcare expenditures have received considerable public attention in many of the countries in which we operate. in the u.s., government programs such as medicare and medicaid, as well as private insurers, have been focused on cost containment. in some markets in the eu and outside the u.s., the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. for example, the proposed affordable drug manufacturing act would create a new office within the u.s. department of health and human services tasked with manufacturing certain generic drugs to be offered directly to consumers. it is unclear if this proposed legislation will be enacted, but these or similar legislative or regulatory efforts could place further pricing pressure on our products and could negatively impact our results of operations. our rx segment in particular could be materially adversely impacted by measures taken by governmental entities or private insurers to restrict patients' access to our products or increase pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases, and increased mandatory discounts or rebates. these actions may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices or may reduce the ability of customers to pay for our products, which could materially negatively impact the rx segment's results of operations. if we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. as described in item 1. business - medicaid rebate agreement , we have entered into various government drug pricing agreements with the u.s. government. there are inherent risks associated with participating in these programs, including the following: by their nature, these programs require us to provide discounts and rebates and therefore reduce our net product revenue. further, because the amounts of these discounts are based on our commercial sales practices and can be adversely affected by both significant discounts and price increases, it is important that we maintain pricing practices that appropriately take into account these government pricing programs. we are required to report pricing data to cms, including amp, on a monthly and quarterly basis and bp and asp on a quarterly basis. we also are required to report quarterly and annual non-famps to the va. if we fail to submit required information on a timely basis, make misrepresentations, or knowingly submit false information to the government as to amp, asp, or bp, we may be liable for substantial civil monetary penalties or subject to other enforcement actions, such as under the false claims act, and cms may terminate our medicaid drug rebate agreement. in that event, u.s. federal payments may not be available under medicaid or medicare part b for our covered outpatient drugs. because many of our products may be subject to medicaid fuls or cms's medicaid actual acquisition cost payment methodology standard, our products may be subject to reimbursement pressures, and in some cases, those pressures may result from practices outside of our control, including how our competitors price their equivalent products. states are continuing to evaluate their payment methods, and we cannot predict how the ful or state payment methodologies will affect our pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers may seek additional discounts in light of reimbursement changes in the future. we also cannot predict how the sharing of ful data and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace in the future. under the 340b program, if we fail to provide required discounts to covered entities, including in connection with the revision of amp or bp data, we may be subject to refund claims or civil monetary penalties under that program pursuant to new program regulations that became effective january 1, 2019. if we inadvertently overcharge the government in connection with our fss contract or tricare agreement, whether due to a misstated fcp or otherwise, we would be required to refund the difference. failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in false claims act allegations or potential violations of other laws and regulations. unexpected refunds to the government, and responses to a government investigation or enforcement action, are expensive and time-consuming, and 29 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. our calculations and methodologies are subject to review by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that these reviews could result in challenges to our submissions. if we do not comply with those reporting and payment obligations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare programs. lack of availability, or significant increases in the cost, of raw materials used in manufacturing our products could adversely impact our profit margins and operating results. affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. in addition, maintaining good supply relationships is essential to our ongoing operations. see item 1. business - materials sourcing for more information. we maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. the effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher-volume or more profitable products. even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of net sales. additionally, global regulatory requirements for obtaining product approvals could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. as a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and our ability or inability to pass on these increases to our customers could have a negative material impact on our financial results. our infant formula products require certain key raw ingredients that are derived from raw milk, such as skim milk powder, whey protein powder, and lactose. our supply of milk-based ingredients may be limited by the ability of individual dairy farmers and cooperatives to provide raw milk in the amount and quality we deem necessary. raw milk production is influenced by factors beyond our control including seasonal and environmental factors, governmental agricultural and environmental policy, and global demand. we cannot guarantee that there will be sufficient supplies of these key ingredients necessary to produce infant formula. our products, and the raw materials used to make the products mentioned above, generally have limited shelf lives. our inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. we may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. cargo thefts and/or diversions and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may occur, causing unexpected shortages and harm to our reputation, which may have a material impact on our operations. we rely on third parties to source many of our raw materials, as well as to manufacture certain dosage forms such as sterile, injectable products that we distribute. we maintain a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants, and toxic substances. nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes, or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of the contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. any future recall or removal would result in additional costs and lost revenue, harm our reputation, and may give rise to product liability litigation. changes in regulation could impact the supply of the api and certain other raw materials used in our products. for example, the eu recently promulgated new standards requiring all api imported into the eu be certified as complying with gmp established by the eu. the regulations placed the certification 30 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries, which led to an api supply shortage in europe as certain governments were not willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. in addition, due to the recent outbreak of the coronavirus, we could experience supply disruptions related to materials sourced directly and indirectly from china or elsewhere. a shortage in api or other raw ingredients could cause us to have to cease manufacture of certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers who are unable to export. this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flow. a disruption at any of our main manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a few locations. see item 1. business - manufacturing and distribution for more information on our significant operations. a significant disruption at one or more of these facilities, whether it be due to fire, natural disaster, power loss, intentional acts of vandalism, climate change, war, terrorism, insufficient quality, or pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business. additionally, regulatory authorities routinely inspect all of our manufacturing facilities for cgmp compliance. while our manufacturing sites are cgmp compliant, if a regulatory authority were to identify serious adverse findings not corrected upon follow up inspections, we may be required to issue product recalls, shutdown manufacturing facilities, and take other remedial actions. if any manufacturing facility were forced to cease or limit production, our business could be adversely affected. any breach, disruption or misuse of our or our external business partners' information systems or cyber security efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are increasingly dependent upon information technology systems to operate our business. our systems, information and operations are highly complex and interrelated with our external business partners. these systems may contain confidential information (including personal data, trade secrets or other intellectual property, or proprietary business information). the nature of digital systems, both internally and externally, makes them potentially vulnerable to disruption or damage from human error and/or security breaches, which include, but are not limited to, ransomware, data theft, denial of service attacks, sabotage, industrial espionage, and computer viruses. such events may be difficult to detect, and once detected, their impact may be difficult to assess and address. cyber attacks have become increasingly common for us and our external business partners, and we have experienced immaterial business disruption and data loss as a result of phishing, business email compromise and other types of attacks on our information technology systems and those of our external business partners. while we continue to employ resources to monitor our systems and protect our infrastructure, these measures may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed, and that could subject us to significant risks, including, without limitation: ransomware attacks, other cyber breaches or disruptions that impair our ability to develop products, meet regulatory approval requirements or deadlines, produce or ship products, take or fulfill orders, and/or collect or make payments on a timely basis; system issues, whether as a result of an intentional breach or a natural disaster, that damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, experience lower sales volume, and/or incur significant liabilities; significant expense to remediate the results of any attacks or breaches and to ensure compliance with any required disclosures mandated by the numerous global privacy and security laws and regulations; and interruptions, security breaches, or loss, misappropriation, or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, which, individually or collectively, could result in financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures and viruses. if we are unable to execute our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, or if our plans prove insufficient for a 31 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors particular situation or take longer than expected to implement in a crisis situation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. we are also subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the california consumer privacy act and national laws implementing the gdpr. these data protection laws introduced more stringent data protection requirements and significant potential fines, as well as increased our responsibility and potential liability in relation to personal data that we process. we have put mechanisms in place to ensure compliance with applicable data protection laws but there can be no guarantee of their effectiveness. our business depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of our sales, therefore our business would be adversely affected by a disruption of our relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' businesses. sales to our largest customer, walmart, comprised approximately 13.0% of our net sales for the year ended december 31, 2019 . while no other customer individually comprised more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. if our relationship with walmart or any of our other significant customers, including the terms of doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on us (refer to item 1. business - significant customers ). many of our customers, which include major global, national, and regional retail drug, supermarket, and mass merchandise chains, major wholesalers, sourcing groups, hospitals, pharmacies, and drug and grocery stores located primarily in europe, continue to merge or consolidate. such consolidation has provided, and may continue to provide, customers with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures we face. the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. in addition, several of our customers have instituted sourcing programs limiting the number of suppliers of generic pharmaceutical products carried by that customer. these developments have resulted in heightened pricing pressure on our products, as well as competition among generic drug producers for business from a smaller and more selective customer base. additionally, if we are unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, and/or end their relationships with us. although we have divested our rights to the tysabri royalty stream, we are entitled to an additional milestone payment if a certain specified threshold is met , and any negative developments related to tysabri could have a material adverse effect on our potential receipt of this payment. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we divested the tysabri financial asset to royalty pharma for $2.2 billion in upfront cash and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in milestone payments. we received the $250.0 million royalty payment on february 22, 2019. in order for us to receive the milestone payment related to 2020 of $400.0 million , the payments received by royalty pharma from biogen for tysabri sales in 2020 must exceed $351.0 million . the 2018 royalty pharma payments from biogen for tysabri were $337.5 million . we elected to account for the contingent milestone payments using the fair value option method, and these were recorded at an estimated fair value of $134.5 million as of december 31, 2017. upon tysabri meeting the 2018 global net sales threshold we recorded a $170.1 million gain in change in financial assets. the fair value of the milestone payment related to 2020 is $95.3 million as of december 31, 2019. our receipt of the milestone payment related to 2020 may be negatively impacted if the royalty stream decreases and is insufficient to meet the specified thresholds. given the fact that the milestone payment related to 2020 is recorded at fair value, if it is determined that tysabri global sales levels do not meet specific thresholds, we would recognize a material charge in the consolidated statement of operations. factors that may have an adverse effect on the tysabri royalty stream include: companies working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for multiple sclerosis that, if successfully developed, would compete with, or could gain greater acceptance than, tysabri and damage its market share. for example, in february 2016, a competitor's pipeline product, ocrevus , received breakthrough therapy designation from the fda, and this product was launched in 2017. the 32 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors product competes with tysabri and could have a significant negative impact on the tysabri royalty stream; biogen is the owner of the patents on tysabri . the loss of protection of these patents, such as a patent invalidation, could adversely affect the royalty stream from tysabri . in addition, once the tysabri patents expire, other generic companies may introduce products similar to tysabri that could adversely affect the royalty stream; foreign currency movement, which could have a negative impact on royalty pharma's tysabri sales, thereby reducing the royalties; any negative developments relating to tysabri , such as safety, efficacy, or reimbursement issues, could reduce demand for tysabri ; and adverse regulatory or legislative developments could limit or prohibit the sale of tysabri , such as restrictions on the use of tysabri or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, which may significantly reduce expected royalty revenue and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. additionally, tysabri sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings on the label, including the risk of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy ("pml"), a serious brain infection. the risk of developing pml may increase with prior immunosuppressant use, longer treatment duration, or the presence of certain antibodies. increased incidence of pml could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label, or result in market withdrawal. in addition, the result of ongoing or future clinical trials involving tysabri or other adverse events reported in association with the use of tysabri may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of tysabri . furthermore, there can be no assurance that royalty pharma will pay the 2020 milestone payment even if the specified thresholds are met. we are dependent on the services of certain key members of management. our inability to successfully manage transition, or the failure to attract and retain other key members of management, may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. key functions for us include executive managers, operational managers, r&amp;d scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists, and sales/marketing personnel. if we are unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, our future operating results may be adversely impacted. management transition creates uncertainties, and any difficulties we experience in managing such transitions may negatively impact our business. on february 7, 2020, we announced the retirement of jeff needham and appointed rich sorota as the executive vice president and president of csca effective march 23, 2020. changes in executive management create uncertainty. moreover, changes in our company as a result of management transition could have a disruptive impact on our ability to implement, or result in changes to, our strategy and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety, quality, and efficacy of our products, and may be affected by changing consumer preferences. negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations, or recalls, regardless of whether they involve us or our products. the mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients, or concerns about our products or the materials used in our products, could discourage consumers from buying our products, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported. 33 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our products involve risks such as product contamination, spoilage, mislabeling, and tampering that could require us to recall one or more of our products. serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against us that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses, delays in the issuance of governmental approvals for new products, or other governmental penalties, all of which could be detrimental to our reputation and reduce demand for our products. we cannot guarantee that counterfeiting, imitation or other tampering with our products will not occur or that we will be able to detect and resolve it. any counterfeiting or contamination of any products could negatively impact our reputation and sales, particularly if counterfeit or imitation products cause death or injury to consumers. many of the brands we acquired from omega pharma invest n.v ("omega") have european recognition. this recognition is the result of the large investments omega made (and we continue to make) in its products over many years. the quality and safety of the products are critical to our business. if we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about safety, quality, efficacy, or similar matters, sentiments toward us and our products could be negatively impacted. our csci segment's financial success is dependent on the success of its brands, and the success of these brands can suffer if marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to attract consumers, and the performance of the segment may be negatively impacted if spending on such plans and initiatives does not generate the returns we anticipate. in addition, given the association of individual products within the commercial network of our csci segment, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of other products, thereby potentially hurting our financial results. powdered infant formula products are not sterile. all of our infant formula products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. depending on the product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw materials, the processing and packaging of food products, and the use and handling by consumers, hospital personnel, and healthcare professionals. if certain of our infant formula products are found or alleged to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not under our control, our reputation and our infant formula product category sales could be materially adversely affected. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputation damage. the company and our employees increasingly utilize social media as a means of internal and external communication. to the extent that we seek to use social media tools to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. a violation of such guidelines may damage our reputation as well as cause potential lawsuits and adversely affect our operating activities. our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. negative posts or comments about us, store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation and could adversely affect our business. in addition, negative posts or comments about our products could result in increased pharmacovigilance reporting requirements, which may give rise to liability if we fail to fully comply with such requirements. 34 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our quarterly results are impacted by several factors, some of which are beyond the control of our management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results. some of the factors that may impact our quarterly results include, but are not limited to, the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu and allergy seasons, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by us and our competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in accounting pronouncements, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by our customers, and the timing of retailer promotional programs. these and other factors may result in significant variations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. we may not be able to sustain or improve operating results in our business segments. several factors may impact our ability to sustain or improve the operating results of our business segments. these factors include but are not limited to, the continued impact of pricing pressure, the success of new product launches, the impact of manufacturing disruptions or delays, and the success of strategic improvement initiatives. there can be no assurance that we will not continue to experience challenges related to our segments, and these challenges could have a material impact on our business, cash flows, and results of operations or result in impairment charges, and the market value of our ordinary shares and/or debt securities may decline. we may not realize the benefits of business acquisitions and divestitures we enter into, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. in the normal course of business, we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions and divestitures. these transactions are accompanied by several risks. many of these risks are beyond our control, and any one of them could result in increased cost, decreased net sales and diversion of management's time and energy, any or all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. acquisitions one of our strategies is inorganic growth through the acquisition of products and companies that we expect will benefit the company. this strategy comes with several financial, managerial, and operational risks. we may not realize the benefits of an acquisition because of integration and other challenges, including, but not limited to the following: difficulty involved with managing the expanded operations of the respective parties, as well as identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities; uncertainties involved in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of the respective parties, as well as identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, and contingent and other liabilities of acquisition targets; unanticipated changes in the business, industry, market or general economic conditions different from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the transaction; difficulties due to a lack of, or limited experience in, any new product or geographic markets we enter; inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies, or return on investment, from an acquisition in the amounts or on the time frame anticipated; substantial demands on our management, operational resources, technology, and financial and internal control systems, which could lead to dissatisfaction and potential loss of key customers, management, or employees; integration activities that may detract attention from our day-to-day business, and substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts; and difficulties, restrictions or increased costs associated with raising future capital in connection with an acquisition may impact our liquidity, credit ratings and financial position, thereby making it more difficult, restrictive or expensive to raise future capital. in addition, the issuance of equity to pay a portion of the purchase price for an acquisition would dilute our existing shareholders. 35 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors divestitures we may evaluate potential divestiture opportunities with respect to portions of our business (including specific assets or categories of assets) from time to time, and may proceed with a divestiture opportunity if and when we believe it is consistent with our business strategy and initiatives. any future divestitures could expose us to significant risk, including without limitation: our ability to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and personnel to any purchaser; fees for legal and transaction-related services; diversion of management resources; and loss of key personnel and reduction in revenue. if we do not realize the expected strategic, economic or other benefits of any divestiture transaction, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the plan to separate our rx business is contingent upon several conditions, is subject to change in form or timing, may not achieve the intended benefits, and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. on august 9, 2018, we announced a plan to separate our rx business, which, when completed, will enable us to focus on expanding our consumer-focused businesses. in 2019, we continued preparations related to our planned separation, which may include a possible sale, spin-off, merger or other form of separation. while we remain committed to transforming to a consumer-focused business, we have not committed to a specific date or form for the separation. the separation of the rx business could impact our ability to retain key employees, comply with existing debt arrangements, maintain our credit ratings and raise future capital. further, even if the separation is completed, we may not achieve the anticipated operational, financial, strategic or other benefits of the separation. after the separation, the combined value and financial performance of the company and rx business may not equal the value and financial performance of the company had the separation not occurred. in connection with the proposed separation, we have incurred significant preparation costs and will continue to incur costs that, when completed, will be in the range of $45.0 million to $80.0 million , excluding restructuring expenses and transaction costs, depending on the final timing and structure of the transaction. in addition, completion of the separation will require a significant amount of management time and effort, which may disrupt our business or otherwise divert management's attention from other aspects of our business, including our other strategic initiatives, possible organic or inorganic growth opportunities, and customer and vendor relationships. any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. our business could be negatively affected by the performance of our collaboration partners and suppliers. we have entered into strategic alliances with partners and suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, or components of our products in various markets. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations. there is a risk that our investments in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. while we believe our relationships with our partners and suppliers generally are successful, disputes, conflicting priorities or regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefit of the collaboration (refer to item 8. note 18 ). a failure or inability of our partners or suppliers to fulfill their collaboration obligations, or the occurrence of any of the risks above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we have acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject us to losses and may result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. we have recorded significant goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of previous acquisitions, which could become impaired and lead to material charges in the future. 36 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors during the year ended december 31, 2019 , we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $109.2 million in our rx segment, definite-lived impairment charges of $69.5 million in our rx and csci segments, and $5.8 million of impairment charges related to certain in-process research and development ("ipr&amp;d") assets in our csca, csci, and rx segments. during the year ended december 31, 2018, we recorded goodwill, definite-lived and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $136.7 million , $49.6 million and $27.7 million primarily in our csca segment, respectively, and $8.7 million of impairment charge related to certain ipr&amp;d assets in our csca segment. during the year ended december 31, 2017, we recorded definite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $19.7 million related to developed product technology/formulation and product rights, and distribution and license agreements primarily in our rx segment and $12.7 million of impairment charge related to certain ipr&amp;d assets primarily in our rx segment. we perform an impairment analysis on intangible assets subject to amortization when there is an indication that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicates a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible asset, and definite-lived intangible asset impairments are recorded in impairment charges on the consolidated statement of operations. as of december 31, 2019 , the net book value of our goodwill and intangible assets were $4.1 billion and $3.0 billion , respectively (refer to item 8. note 4 ). there can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives will achieve their intended effects. we are in the process of implementing certain initiatives designed to increase operational efficiency and improve our return on invested capital by globalizing our supply chain through global shared service arrangements, streamlining our organizational structure, making key executive employee changes, performing a strategic portfolio review, and disposing of certain assets. furthermore, we are transitioning into a consumer-focused, self-care company. we believe these initiatives will enhance our net sales, operating margins, and earnings; however, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will produce the anticipated benefits. any delay or failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could have a material adverse effect on our projected results. while we have remediated previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to our income tax process, we may identify other material weaknesses in the future. we are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls on a periodic basis and publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and related matters in accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. during the years ended december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2017, we identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that related to the matters associated with our income tax process, which have been remediated. while we have remediated those previously identified material weaknesses, there can be no assurances that our controls will remain adequate. any failure to implement or maintain required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, including retention of key employees, could result in additional material weaknesses or material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. any new misstatement could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, reduce our ability to obtain financing or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. we cannot assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. 37 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors global risks our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. we manufacture, source raw materials, and sell our products in a number of countries. the percentage of our business outside the u.s. has been increasing. we are subject to risks associated with international manufacturing and sales, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; problems related to markets with different cultural biases or political systems; possible difficulties in enforcing agreements; longer payment cycles and shipping lead-times; difficulties obtaining export or import licenses; changes to u.s. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the u.s., including but not limited to, goods imported from china; and imposition of withholding or other taxes. additionally, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering import and export regulations. to the extent that we are unable to successfully defend against an audit or review, we may be required to pay assessments, penalties, and increased duties. certain of our facilities operate in a special purpose sub-zone established by the u.s. department of commerce foreign trade zone board, which allows us certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. if the foreign trade zone board were to revoke the sub-zone designation or limit our use, we could be subject to increased duties. although we believe that we conduct our business in compliance with applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and economic sanctions laws, if we are found to not be in compliance with such laws or other anti-corruption laws, we could be subject to governmental investigations, legal or regulatory proceedings, substantial fines, and/or other legal or equitable penalties. this risk increases in locations outside of the u.s., particularly in locations that have not previously had to comply with the fcpa, u.k. bribery act 2010, irish criminal justice (corruption offenses) act 2018, and similar laws. we operate in jurisdictions that could be affected by economic and political instability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. our operations and supply partners could be affected by economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities, unstable governments and legal systems, and inter-governmental disputes. we have significant operations in israel, which has experienced varying degrees of hostility in recent years. doing business in israel and certain other regions involves the following risks: certain countries and international organizations have refused to do business with companies with israeli operations. we are also precluded from marketing our products to certain countries due to u.s. and israeli regulatory restrictions. international economic sanctions and boycotts of our products could negatively impact our sales and ability to export our products. our facilities in israel are within a conflict zone. if terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to our facilities, our business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, we would need to obtain prior regulatory agency approval for a change in manufacturing site. 38 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors the u.s. department of state and other governments have at times issued advisories regarding travel to certain countries in which we do business. as a result, regulatory agencies have, at various times, curtailed or prohibited their inspectors from traveling to inspect facilities. if these inspectors are unable to inspect our facilities, the regulatory agencies could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities. our international operations may be subject to interruption due to travel restrictions, war, terrorist acts, and other armed conflicts. also, further threats of armed hostilities in certain countries could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the cancellation of contracts or the loss of assets. these events could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations. on june 23, 2016, the uk electorate voted in a referendum to voluntarily depart from the eu, known as "brexit". following the formation of a majority conservative government in december 2019, the uk approved the withdrawal agreement and left the eu on january 31, 2020. the terms of the uk's final withdrawal remain subject to ongoing negotiation until december 31, 2020, during which current eu regulations will continue to apply in the uk. the uk parliament banned extensions to the transition period, so the uk must finalize new trading agreements with the eu by december 31, 2020. trade negotiations are expected to begin in early march 2020, but the nature of the economic relationship between the eu and uk remains uncertain, and there is no guarantee that both parties will be able to reach an agreement before the transition period expires. additionally, the uk will likely negotiate trade deals with other partners, including the united states. brexit has created significant instability and volatility in the global financial markets, has led to significant weakening of the british pound compared to the u.s. dollar and other currencies, and could adversely affect european or worldwide economic or market conditions. although it is unknown what the future trading terms with the eu will be, they may impair the ability of our operations in the eu to transact business in the future in the uk, and similarly the ability of our uk operations to transact business in the future in the eu. specifically, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports, including possible tariffs, between the uk and eu countries, increased restrictions on freedom of movement for employees, and increased regulatory complexities. future trading terms between the uk and other trading partners are also unknown. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. we are actively monitoring brexit updates from a government and regulatory perspective. we are preparing for a hard (no confirmed trading deal with the eu) brexit", which is intended to ensure we meet both applicable eu and uk regulatory requirements as well as stock-builds to secure supply continuity. there can be no assurances, however, that these preparations will be sufficient or that the final exit terms will be as we anticipate. any of the above mentioned effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, operations, and financial results. while the challenging global economic environment has not had a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, there can be no assurance that possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions will not affect our liquidity or capital resources, impact our ability to obtain financing, or decrease the value of our assets. the challenging economic conditions have also impacted the movements in exchange rates, which have experienced significant recent volatility. uncertainty regarding the future growth rates between countries, the influence of central bank actions, and the changing political environment globally may contribute to continued high levels of exchange rate volatility, which could have an adverse impact on our results. our customers could be adversely impacted if u.s. economic conditions worsen. our csca segment does not advertise our store brand products like national brand companies and thus is largely dependent on retailer promotional activities to drive sales volume and increase market share. if our customers do not have the ability to invest in store brand promotional activities, our sales may suffer. additionally, while we actively review the credit worthiness of our customers and suppliers, we cannot fully predict to what extent they may be negatively impacted by slowing economic growth. 39 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors the international scope of our business exposes us to risks associated with foreign exchange rates. we report our financial results in u.s. dollars. however, a significant portion of our net sales, assets, indebtedness and other liabilities, and costs are denominated in foreign currencies. these currencies include, among others, the euro, indian rupee, british pound, canadian dollar, israeli shekel, australian dollar, and mexican peso. our branded consumer self-care business is a euro-denominated business that represents a significant portion of our net sales, net earnings and net assets. in addition, several emerging market economies are particularly vulnerable to the impact of rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, weaker oil and other commodity prices, and large external deficits. risks in one country can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in another country or countries. as a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our operations. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. in addition, we may also be exposed to credit risks in some of those markets. we may implement currency hedges or take other actions intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are not successful in mitigating the effects of changes in exchange rates on our business, any such changes could materially impact our results. litigation and insurance risks we are or may become involved in lawsuits and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings. we may become involved in lawsuits arising from a wide variety of commercial, manufacturing, development, marketing, sales and other business-related matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, pricing, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising, unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product quality/recall, environmental remediation, securities law, disclosure, and regulatory issues. litigation is unpredictable and can be costly. we intend to vigorously defend against any lawsuits, however, we cannot predict how the cases will be resolved. adverse results in the cases could result in substantial monetary judgments. no assurance can be made that litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations in the future (refer to item 8. note 17 ). we may be subject to liability if our products violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where our products are distributed. the successful assertion of product liability or other product-related claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, and we could incur substantial legal expenses. even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation may suffer. we may face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. we may in the future face liability for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under or in our currently or formerly owned property, or from a third-party disposal facility that we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. the actual or alleged presence of these substances, or the failure to remediate them, could have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on our ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. there can be no assurance that environmental liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on us. see item 1. business - information applicable to all reportable segments - environmental for more information . our csci and csca segments regularly make advertising claims regarding the effectiveness of their products, which we are responsible for defending. an unsuccessful defense of a product-related claim could result in potentially significant monetary damages and substantial legal expenses. even if a claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and our reputation could suffer. additionally, we are the target of claims asserting violations of securities fraud and derivative actions, or other litigation proceedings, and may be in the future. 40 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors increased scrutiny on pricing practices and competition in the pharmaceutical industry, including antitrust enforcement activity by government agencies and class action litigation, may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. there has been increased scrutiny regarding sales, marketing, and pricing practices in the pharmaceutical industry, including criminal antitrust investigations regarding drug pricing, multiple civil antitrust litigations initiated by governmental and private plaintiffs against pharmaceutical manufacturers and individuals, and media reports. on may 2, 2017, we disclosed that search warrants were executed at several perrigo facilities and other locations in connection with the antitrust division's ongoing investigation related to drug pricing in the pharmaceutical industry. although no charges have been brought to date against perrigo or any of our current employees (or, to the best of our knowledge, former employees), we take the investigation very seriously. if criminal antitrust charges are filed involving perrigo, we would incur substantial litigation and other costs, and could face substantial monetary penalties, injunctive relief, negative publicity and damage to our reputation. regardless of the ultimate outcome, responding to those charges would divert management's time and attention and could impair our operations. further, we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory changes may result from the ongoing public scrutiny of our industry, what the nature of any such changes might be, or what impact they may have on perrigo. any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and reputation. while we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, any adverse decision could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. we are cooperating with the government's investigation and are committed to operating our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and the highest standards of ethical conduct. we do not condone, and will not countenance, any violation of these standards by our employees, agents, and business partners. in addition, we have been named as a co-defendant with certain other generic pharmaceutical manufacturers in a number of class action lawsuits alleging that we engaged in anti-competitive behavior to fix or raise the prices of certain drugs starting, in some instances, as early as june 2013 (refer to item 8. note 17 ). while we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, any adverse decision could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. publishing earnings guidance subjects us to risks, including increased stock volatility, that could lead to potential lawsuits by investors. because we publish earnings guidance, we are subject to several risks. actual results may vary from the guidance we provide investors from time to time, such that our stock price may decline following, among other things, any earnings release or guidance that does not meet market expectations. it has become increasingly commonplace for investors to file lawsuits against companies following a rapid decrease in market capitalization. we have been in the past, are currently, and may be in the future, named in these types of lawsuits. these types of lawsuits can be costly and divert management attention and other resources away from our business, regardless of their merits, and could result in adverse settlements or judgments, which could have a material impact on the company. third-party patents and other intellectual property rights may limit our ability to bring new products to market and may subject us to potential legal liability, causing us to incur significant costs. the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. 41 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors as a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products, the ability of our csca , csci, and rx segments to bring new products to market is often limited by third-party patents or proprietary rights and regulatory exclusivity periods awarded on products. launching new products prior to resolution of intellectual property issues may result in us incurring legal liability if the related litigation is later resolved against us. the cost and time for us to develop prescription and rx-to-otc switch products is significantly greater than the rest of the new products that we introduce. any failure to bring new products to market in a timely manner could cause us to lose market share, and our operating results could suffer. we could have to defend against charges that we violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. this could require us to incur substantial expense and could divert significant effort of our technical and management personnel. if we are found to have infringed on the rights of others, we could lose our right to develop or manufacture some products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. additionally, if we choose to settle a dispute through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing and selling a number of our products. at times, our csca or rx segments may seek approval to market drug products before the expiration of patents for those products, based upon our belief that such patents are invalid, unenforceable or would not be infringed by our products. in these cases, we may face significant patent litigation. depending upon a complex analysis of a variety of legal and commercial factors, we may, in certain circumstances, elect to market a generic pharmaceutical product while litigation is pending, before any court decision, or while an appeal of a lower court decision is pending, known as an "at risk" launch. the risk involved in an "at risk" launch can be substantial because, if a patent holder ultimately prevails, the remedies available to the patent holder may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the holder, which are often significantly higher than the profits we make from selling the generic version of the product. by electing to proceed in this manner, we could face substantial damages if we receive an adverse final court decision. in the case where a patent holder is able to prove that our infringement was "willful" or "exceptional," under applicable law, the patent holder may be awarded up to three times the amount of its actual damages or we may be required to pay attorneys' fees. the success of certain of our products depends on the effectiveness of measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights and patents. if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. we have been issued patents covering certain of our products, and we have filed, and expect to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries. any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by us may not provide us with any significant competitive advantages for our products or may even be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by competitors. in addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using, or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees, and consultants. if these agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, we may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of the insurance we maintain could adversely impact our financial condition. to protect the company against various potential liabilities, we maintain a variety of insurance programs, including property, general, product, and directors' and officers' liability. we may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that we purchase. we are self-insured when insurance is not available or not available at reasonable premiums. risks associated with insurance plans include: 42 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors insurance costs could increase significantly, or the availability of insurance may decrease, either of which could adversely impact our financial condition; deductible or retention amounts could increase, or our coverage could be reduced in the future and to the extent losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on our financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage we maintained; insurance may not be available to us at an economically reasonable cost or our insurance may not adequately cover our liability in connection with claims brought against us; and as our business inherently exposes us to claims, we may become subject to claims for which we are not adequately insured. unanticipated payment of a large claim may have a material adverse effect on our business. tax related risks the resolution of uncertain tax positions, including the notices of proposed adjustments and notice of assessment, could be unfavorable, which could have an adverse effect on our business. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that our tax filings are prepared in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit or any related litigation could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. the results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made and in future periods after the determination. in addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties or interest assessments. we are currently involved in several audits and adjustment-related disputes, including related litigation. this includes litigation in the united states district court for the western district of michigan regarding our fiscal years ended june 27, 2009, june 26, 2010, june 25, 2011, and june 30, 2012. the united states district court for the western district of michigan has scheduled a trial date in late may 2020 in response to our complaint filed on august 15, 2017 to recover $163.6 million of federal income tax, penalties and interest assessed and collected by the irs. additionally, the irs has proposed adjustments regarding the deductibility of interest for the years ended june 29, 2013, june 28, 2014, and june 27, 2015 and the irs has proposed adjustments regarding litigation costs and transfer pricing positions for athena neuroscience, inc. ("athena"), a subsidiary of elan acquired in 1996, for the years ended december 31, 2011, december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2013. we are also involved in litigation with irish revenue for the years ended december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2013. on august 22, 2019, we received a draft nopa from the irs with respect to our fiscal tax years ended june 28, 2014 and june 27, 2015, relating to the deductibility of interest on $7.5 billion in debts owed to perrigo company plc by perrigo company, a michigan corporation and wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of perrigo company plc. the debts were incurred in connection with the elan merger transaction in 2013. the draft nopa would cap the interest rate on the debts for u.s. federal tax purposes at 130.0% of the applicable federal rate (a blended rate reduction of 4.0% per annum from the rates agreed to by the parties), on the stated ground that the loans were not negotiated on an arms'-length basis. as a result of the proposed interest rate reduction, the draft nopa proposes a reduction in gross interest expense of approximately $480.0 million for fiscal years 2014 and 2015. if the irs were to prevail in its proposed adjustment, we estimate an increase in tax expense for such fiscal years of approximately $170.0 million, excluding interest and penalties. in addition, we would expect the irs to seek similar adjustments for the period from june 28, 2015 through december 31, 2019. if those further adjustments were sustained, based on our preliminary calculations and subject to further analysis, our current best estimate is that the additional tax expense would not exceed $200.0 million, excluding interest and penalties, for the period june 28, 2015 through december 31, 2019. we do not expect any similar adjustments beyond december 31, 2019 as proposed regulations, issued under section 267a of the internal revenue code, would eliminate the deductibility of interest on this debt. we strongly disagree with the irs position and will pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies. no payment of any amount related to the proposed adjustments is required to be made, if at all, until all applicable proceedings have been completed. following receipt of the draft nopa, perrigo provided the irs with a detailed written response on september 20, 2019. that submission included an analysis by external advisors that supported the original interest rates as being consistent with arms'-length rates for comparable debt and explained why the exam team's analyses 43 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors and conclusions were both factually and legally misguided. based on discussions with the irs, we had believed that the irs staff would take our submission into account and meet with us to discuss whether this issue could be resolved at the examination level. however, in the weeks following such discussions, irs staff advised that they would not respond in detail to our september submission or negotiate the interest rate issue prior to issuing a final nopa consistent with the draft nopa. accordingly, we currently expect that we will receive a final nopa regarding this matter that proposes substantially the same adjustments described in the draft nopa. on april 26, 2019, we received a revised nopa from the irs regarding transfer pricing positions related to the irs audit of athena for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013. the nopa carries forward the irs's theory from its 2017 draft nopa that when elan took over the future funding of athena's in-process research and development after acquiring athena in 1996, elan should have paid a substantially higher royalty rate for the right to exploit athena's intellectual property, rather than rates based on transfer pricing documentation prepared by elan's external tax advisors. the nopa proposes a payment of $843.0 million , which represents additional tax and a 40.0% penalty. this amount excludes consideration of offsetting tax attributes and potentially material interest. we strongly disagree with the irs position and will pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies, including potentially those available under the u.s. - ireland income tax treaty to alleviate double taxation. no payment of the additional amounts is required until the matter is resolved administratively, judicially, or through treaty negotiation. on october 30, 2018, we received an audit finding letter from the irish office of the revenue commissioners ("irish revenue") for the years ended december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2013. the audit finding letter relates to the tax treatment of the 2013 sale of the tysabri intellectual property and other assets related to tysabri to biogen idec from elan pharma. the consideration paid by biogen to elan pharma took the form of an upfront payment and future contingent royalty payments. irish revenue issued a notice of amended assessment ("noa") on november 29, 2018, which assesses an irish corporation tax liability against elan pharma in the amount of 1,636 million , not including interest or any applicable penalties. we disagree with this assessment and believe that the noa is without merit and incorrect as a matter of law. we filed an appeal of the noa on december 27, 2018 and will pursue all available administrative and judicial avenues as may be necessary or appropriate. in connection with that, elan pharma was granted leave by the irish high court on february 25, 2019 to seek judicial review of the issuance of the noa by irish revenue. the judicial review filing is based on our belief that elan pharma's legitimate expectations as a taxpayer have been breached, not on the merits of the noa itself. the high court has scheduled a hearing in this judicial review proceeding in april 2020, and we would expect a decision in this matter in the second half of 2020. if we are ultimately successful in the judicial review proceedings, the noa will be invalidated and irish revenue will not be able to re-issue the noa. the proceedings before the tax appeals commission have been stayed until a decision on the judicial review application has been made. if for any reason the judicial review proceedings are ultimately unsuccessful in establishing that irish revenue's issuance of the noa breaches our legitimate expectations, elan pharma will reactivate its appeal to challenge the merits of the noa before the tax appeals commission. we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our tax reserves. we believe that, based on a review of the relevant facts and circumstances, this matter will not result in a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. however, while we believe our position to be correct, there can be no assurance of an ultimate favorable outcome, and if the matter is ultimately resolved unfavorably it would have a material adverse impact on us, including on liquidity and capital resources. we will consider the financial statement impact of any additional facts as they become available. in addition, going forward, uncertainty regarding the future outcome of tax disputes such as the noa or draft or final nopa may have an adverse impact on our strategy and the results of such tax disputes may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. at this time, we cannot predict the outcome of any audit or related litigation. unfavorable developments in or resolutions of matters such as those discussed above could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods (refer to item 8, note 15 for further information related to uncertain tax positions and ongoing tax audits and item 8. note 17 for further information related to legal proceedings). in addition, an adverse result with respect to any of these matters could ultimately require the use of 44 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors corporate assets to pay assessments and related interest, penalties or other amounts, and any such use of corporate assets would limit the assets available for other corporate purposes. the u.s. internal revenue service ("irs") may not agree with the conclusion that we are treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. although we are incorporated in ireland, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation (and, therefore, a u.s. tax resident) for u.s. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended ("code"). for u.s. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. because we are an irish incorporated entity, we would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-u.s. tax resident) under these rules. section 7874 of the code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. for perrigo company plc to be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the code, either (i) the former stockholders of perrigo company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our stock by reason of holding shares in perrigo company (the "ownership test") as of the closing of the elan acquisition or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in ireland after the elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). upon our acquisition of elan, perrigo company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of our shares. as a result, we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, we cannot assure that the irs will agree with our position that the ownership test is satisfied. there is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test. an unfavorable determination on perrigo company plc's treatment as a foreign corporation under section 7874 of the code could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in future periods. based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that section 7874 of the code likely will limit our and our u.s. affiliates' ability to use their u.s. tax attributes, such as net operating losses, to offset certain u.s. taxable income, if any, generated by the elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the elan acquisition (refer to item 8. note 15 ). changes to tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. we believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes. however, any of the following could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for u.s. federal tax purposes: changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the code, the irs treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other irs guidance; and legislative proposals aimed at expanding the scope of u.s. corporate tax residence. since our acquisition of elan in 2013, the united states treasury ("treasury") and the irs have issued a number of notices and proposed, temporary, and final regulations, including most recently, on july 12, 2018, new final regulations addressing various aspects of section 7874 and related provisions, including guidance to address certain specific post-inversion transactions. all the notices and regulations are either effective for dates after the elan acquisition occurred or do not provide guidance that we believe would have a material impact on the treatment of our status as a foreign corporation. the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ), which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles relating to base erosion and profit shifting ("beps"). these changes are being adopted and implemented by many of the countries in which we do business and may increase our tax expense in these countries. for example, ireland implemented "controlled foreign corporation legislation" effective january 1, 2019 as required by the eu anti-tax avoidance directive ("atad") and effective january 1, 2020 has implemented "anti-hybrid legislation." such oecd initiatives, changes 45 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors in domestic legislation, introduction of eu directives and general global tax reform are actively monitored to ensure we adhere to all laws and regulations in all jurisdictions in which we operate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted the u.s. tax act. the u.s. tax act includes several significant changes to existing u.s. tax laws that impact us. these changes include a corporate income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21%, full expensing of fixed assets placed in service in 2018 and the elimination or reduction of certain u.s. deductions and credits, including limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation. the u.s. tax act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system. this modified territorial system includes, among other items, base erosion prevention measures which have the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our u.s. owned foreign corporations to u.s. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) and the establishment of a minimum tax on certain payments from our u.s. subsidiaries to related foreign persons as base erosion and anti-abuse tax ( beat ). these changes became effective in 2018. the u.s. tax act also includes a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated u.s. owned foreign corporations' previously untaxed foreign earnings ( transition toll tax ). the transition toll tax can be paid over an eight-year period starting in 2018 and will not accrue interest. based on the 2017 u.s. federal income tax return filed by the company, the transition toll tax was paid in full with the 2017 u.s. federal income tax return. during 2018, treasury and the irs issued various forms of guidance, including notices of proposed rule making and proposed treasury regulations, implementing and clarifying aspects of the u.s. tax act and other related topics, such as: transition toll tax; beat; gilti; foreign tax credit computations; the full expensing of fixed assets placed in service in 2018; interest expense limitations under section 163(j); deductibility of interest and/or royalty payments made by u.s. corporate taxpayers to foreign related parties in so-called hybrid mismatch arrangements under section 267a; and the limitation of deductions for key executive compensation as determined under section 162(m). during the year ended december 31, 2018, we considered and evaluated treasury and irs guidance issued as described above and reflected certain changes in our income tax provision for 2018. in 2019, treasury and the irs issued final tax regulations ( final regulations ) on certain code sections that were introduced by, or changed as a result of, the u.s. tax act. the final regulations issued in 2019 did not result in material changes to the tax effect recorded in prior periods when proposed regulations were issued. we will continue to record the tax effects of any further proposed regulations in the quarters in which they are issued. our preliminary estimate of the impact of the u.s. tax act (including the transition toll tax) was recorded as of december 31, 2017 and was subject to the finalization of management's analysis related to certain matters, such as developing interpretations of the provisions of the u.s. tax act, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain u.s. owned foreign subsidiaries and the filing of our tax returns. u.s. treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the u.s. tax act required further adjustments and changes in our 2017 estimates, which did not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. the final determination of the impact of the u.s. tax act (including the transition toll tax) was completed in 2018, as required by sab 118 (refer to item 8, note 15 ). any of these changes could have a prospective or retroactive application to us, our shareholders, and affiliates, and could adversely affect us by changing our effective tax rate and limiting our ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner. 46 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors our effective tax rate or cash tax payment requirements may change in the future, which could adversely impact our future results from operations. a number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rate or cash tax payment requirements, which may impact our future results and cash flows from operations (refer to item 8, note 15 ). these factors include, but are not limited to: changes to tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (including additional proposals for fundamental international tax reform in a number of jurisdictions globally); income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to our interpretation of transfer pricing standards, treatment or characterization of intercompany transactions, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and divestitures of current operations. capital and liquidity risks our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to implement our strategic initiatives. we anticipate that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and borrowings available under our credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. our business requires continuous capital investments, and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. additionally, our leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect the business. at december 31, 2019 , our total indebtedness outstanding was $3.4 billion . our senior credit facilities, the agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. we also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. if we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities, agreements governing our senior notes, and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. any default under our senior credit facilities or agreements governing our senior notes or other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. if our indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay or refinance our debt or obtain sufficient new financing. downgrades to our credit ratings may limit our access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs on current or future financing, including via trade payables with vendors. customers' inclination to purchase goods from us may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of our credit ratings. there are various maturity dates associated with our credit facilities, senior notes, and other debt facilities. there is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. further, there is no assurance that future refinancing or renegotiation of our senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt facilities, or additional agreements will not have materially different or more stringent terms (refer to item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ). 47 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors we cannot guarantee that we will buy back our ordinary shares pursuant to our announced share repurchase plan or that our share repurchase plan will enhance long-term shareholder value. following the expiration of our 2015 share repurchase plan authorization (the "2015 authorization"), in october 2018 our board of directors authorized up to $1.0 billion of share repurchases with no expiration date (the "2018 authorization"), subject to the board of directors' approval of the pricing parameters and amount that may be repurchased under each specific share repurchase program. through december 31, 2018, we repurchased a total of 7.8 million ordinary shares through the prior 2015 authorization. the specific timing and amount of buybacks under the 2018 authorization, if any, will depend upon several factors, including market and business conditions, the trading price of our ordinary shares, the nature of other investment opportunities and the availability of distributable reserves of perrigo company plc. buybacks of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase plan could affect the market price of our ordinary shares or increase their volatility. additionally, our share repurchase plan could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. although our share repurchase plan is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so, and short-term share price fluctuations could reduce the plan's effectiveness. any additional shares we may issue could dilute your ownership in the company. under irish law, our authorized share capital can be increased by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders, and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by the articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of our shareholders. subject to specified exceptions, irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights either in our articles of association or by way of a special resolution. such disapplication of these preemption rights can either be generally applicable or be in respect of a particular allotment of shares. at our annual general meeting of shareholders in april 2019, our shareholders authorized our board of directors to issue up to a maximum of 33% of our issued ordinary capital on that date for a period of 18 months from the passing of the resolution. at the annual general meeting, our shareholders also authorized our board of directors to issue ordinary shares on a nonpreemptive basis in the following circumstances: (i) an issuance of shares in connection with any rights issuance and (ii) an issuance of shares for cash, if the issuance is limited to up to 5% of the company's issued ordinary share capital (with the possibility of issuing an additional 5% of the company's issued ordinary share capital provided the company uses it only in connection with an acquisition or a specified capital investment that is announced contemporaneously with the issuance, or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issuance), bringing the total acceptable limit to 10% of the company's issued ordinary share capital. once these authorizations expire, we cannot provide any assurance that they will be renewed by the shareholders at subsequent annual general meetings, which could limit our ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of our securities. we are incorporated in ireland; irish law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders. as an irish company, we are governed by the irish companies act 2014 (the "act"). the act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to u.s. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification of directors. under irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. as a result, shareholders of irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax, irish income tax, and capital acquisitions tax. 48 perrigo company plc - item 1a risk factors there is no treaty between ireland and the u.s. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in ireland, the judgment must be (i) for a definite sum, (ii) provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and (iii) final and conclusive. an irish high court may exercise its right to refuse to recognize and enforce a foreign judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if it violated irish public policy, if it is in breach of natural justice, or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. an irish high court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. judgments of u.s. courts of liabilities predicated upon u.s. federal securities laws may not be enforced by irish high courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in ireland. it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction than if we were a u.s. company because the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ, and in some cases are greater, under irish law. irish law differs from the laws in effect in the u.s. with respect to defending unwanted takeover proposals and may give our board of directors less ability to control negotiations with hostile offerors. we are subject to the irish takeover panel act, 1997, takeover rules, 2013. under those irish takeover rules, the board of directors is not permitted to take any action that might frustrate an offer for our ordinary shares once the board of directors has received an approach that may lead to an offer or has reason to believe that such an offer is or may be imminent, subject to certain exceptions. potentially frustrating actions such as (i) the issuance of ordinary shares, options or convertible securities, (ii) material acquisitions or disposals, (iii) entering into contracts other than in the ordinary course of business, or (iv) any action, other than seeking alternative offers, which may result in frustration of an offer, are prohibited during the course of an offer or at any earlier time during which the board of directors has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent. these provisions may give the board of directors less ability to control negotiations with hostile offerors and protect the interests of holders of ordinary shares than would be the case for a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. we may be limited in our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares in the future. a number of factors may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future, including: our ability to receive cash dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries; compliance with applicable laws and debt covenants; our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant; and the availability of perrigo company plc's distributable reserves, being profits of the company available for distribution to shareholders. under irish law, distributable reserves are the accumulated realized profits so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less accumulated realized losses so far as not previously written off in a reduction or a reorganization of capital duly made. in addition, no distribution or dividend may be made if, at the time of the distribution or dividend, perrigo company plc's net assets are not, or would not be after giving effect to such distribution or dividend, equal to, or in excess of, the aggregate of perrigo company plc's called-up share capital plus undistributable reserves. while we currently expect to continue paying dividends, significant changes in our business or financial condition such as asset impairments, sustained operating losses and the selling of assets, could impact the amount of distributable reserves available to us. we could seek to create additional distributable reserves through a reduction in perrigo company plc's share premium, which would require 75% shareholder approval and the approval of the irish high court. the irish high court's approval is a matter for the discretion of the court, and there can be no assurances that such approval would be obtained. in the event that additional distributable reserves are not created in this way, dividends, share repurchases or other distributions would generally not be permitted under irish law until such time as perrigo company plc has created sufficient distributable reserves in our audited statutory financial statements as a result of its business activities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 80 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign exchange risk we are a global company with operations primarily throughout north america, europe, australia, mexico, and israel. we transact business in each location's local currency and in foreign currencies, thereby creating exposures to changes in exchange rates. our largest exposure is the movement of the u.s. dollar relative to the euro. in addition, our u.s. operations continue to expand their export business, primarily in canada, china, and europe, and are subject to fluctuations in the respective exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar. a large portion of the sales of our israeli operations is in foreign currencies, primarily u.s. dollars and euros, while these operations largely incur costs in their local currency. further, a portion of biogen's global sales of tysabri are denominated in local currencies, creating exposures to changes in exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar and thereby impacting the amount of u.s. dollar royalties necessary to achieve our contingent payment threshold in 2020. due to different sales and cost structures, certain segments experience a negative impact and certain segments a positive impact as a result of changes in exchange rates. we estimate the translation effect of a ten percent devaluation of the u.s. dollar relative to the other foreign currencies in which we transact business would have increased operating income of our non-u.s. operating units by approximately $31.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 . this sensitivity analysis has inherent limitations. the analysis disregards the possibility that rates of multiple foreign currencies will not always move in the same direction relative to the value of the u.s. dollar over time and does not account for foreign exchange derivatives that we utilize to mitigate fluctuations in exchange rates. in addition, we enter into certain purchase commitments for materials that, although denominated in u.s. dollars, are linked to foreign currency valuations. these commitments generally contain a range for which the price of materials may fluctuate over time given the value of a foreign currency. the translation of the assets and liabilities of our non-u.s. dollar denominated operations is made using local currency exchange rates as of the end of the year. translation adjustments are not included in determining net income but are disclosed in accumulated other comprehensive income ("aoci") within shareholders' equity on the consolidated balance sheets until a sale or substantially complete liquidation of the net investment in the subsidiary takes place. in certain markets, we could recognize a significant gain or loss related to unrealized cumulative translation adjustments if we were to exit the market and liquidate our net investment. as of december 31, 2019 , cumulative net currency translation adjustments increased shareholders' equity by $132.9 million . we monitor and strive to manage risk related to foreign currency exchange rates. exposures that cannot be 80 perrigo company plc - item 7a naturally offset within a local entity to an immaterial amount are often hedged with foreign exchange derivatives or netted with offsetting exposures at other entities. we cannot predict future changes in foreign currency movements and fluctuations that could materially impact earnings. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of interest income earned on our investment of cash on hand and interest expense on borrowings. we have in the past, and may in the future, enter into certain derivative financial instruments related to the management of interest rate risk, when available on a cost-effective basis. these instruments are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets. gains and losses on hedging transactions are offset by gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. see